The car hit a stationary truck (R) on the expressway. (Express Photo: Gajendra Yadav) The car hit a stationary truck (R) on the expressway. (Express Photo: Gajendra Yadav)

Four people were killed after their car hit a stationary truck on the Yamuna Expressway Monday morning. While police did not receive any complaint with regard to the case, they maintained that the accident did not seem to have taken place due to fog and low visibility.

The accident took place around 8 am, nearly 7 km from the zero point in Greater Noida’s Ecotech police station.

Watch what else is in the news

“Three persons of a family and their driver were killed. Prima facie, it does not look like an accident caused due to low visibility since fog was not that dense at the time,” said Ajay Kumar, Circle Officer, Greater Noida 2nd, Gautam Budh Nagar Police.

The victims have been identified as Manoj Kumar Sinha (53), his wife Soni Sinha (50), his mother-in-law Usha (73), and Sultan Ahmad (40). Sinha and his family members were on their way back after attending a wedding in Bihar. “All of them died in the accident Monday morning. The couple, residents of Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram, have a 17-year-old son and 15-year-old daughter who study at a Delhi-based school. Ahmad, the driver of the car, used to live in Delhi’s Jamia Nagar,” a senior police officer said.

Police officers said that the silver Maruti Alto the four persons were travelling in hit a stationary truck. “It seems that their car was travelling at a high speed. They were on the road that leads to Pari Chowk in Greater Noida from Agra. It is also possible that the driver fell asleep. The truck had been parked on the side of the road after it had broken down. The bodies were stuck between the vehicles and it took us a while to bring them out,” the officer added.

The bodies were sent for post-mortem in the morning and were handed over to the families by evening.

This is the second accident at the Expressway this month. On December 1, two persons had died near Mathura in separate incidents when cars piled up due to low visibility.

For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now