( ) has received a Speculative Buy rating from broker .

Canaccord has applied a target price of $0.35 per share, which is circa 50% higher than the company's current valuation.

The following is an extract from the report.



Red River – Imminent zinc producer

Red River Resources (ASX: RVR) is a near-term producer of base metals (primarily zinc) from the restart of the Thalanga operation in Northern Queensland, Australia.

Since acquiring the project in October 2014, the company has utilised modern geophysical methods to define resource targets that were poorly defined due to the transported conductive surface cover (Campaspe Formation) in the Mt Windsor Volcanic Belt region.



Superior exposure to improved zinc market:

With the recent improvement in the outlook for base metals (more specifically, the zinc price is +63% over the past year) RVR looks ideally placed to benefit with first production of mineral concentrate expected during 2H CY2017.

One of the key benefits of the operation is the good condition of existing surface and underground infrastructure which result in minor levels of restart capital expenditure (~A$17m).

The project is fully permitted and adequately funded (cash at A$21m at DecQ”16, and subsequent to year end, raised an additional A$19.9m cash) to achieve first production in 2H CY2017.



Handy by-products also:

We currently forecast production from Thalanga to average ~20.5ktpa Zn, 5.3ktpa Pb, 3.5kpta Cu, 350koz Ag and 2.2koz Au at an average AISC of ~A$1.10/lb over 5.5 years mine life.

While we have used the 2015 restart study as the basis of our valuation, we have interpreted that successful infill drilling at Far West and extensional drilling at Waterloo have the potential to provide +2 years additional mine life to the initial base case.



Exploration upside:

RVR possess significant regional landholding (+400km2) with no significant exploration in the region since 1998.

RVR has used updated induced polarization (IP) methods to test prospects that remain under conductive cover (over 50% of tenements).

The benefits of this technique have become apparent with the recent high grade discovery hole at Liontown East (7.5m @16% Zn Eq) and similar follow up results at the deposit.