Veteran China reporters say that in recent years, delegates attending the Two Meetings have become even less willing to engage with the press. Here, delegates leave the Great Hall of the People. Photo: Ng Han Guan/Associated Press

Every year, the convening of China’s national legislature is its own predictable, if peculiar, mix of pageantry and bureaucratic tedium.

Thousands of delegates arrive at the Great Hall of the People, while Tiananmen Square is briefly turned into a parking lot for all the vehicles that ferry them in. Premier Li Keqiang reads out the government’s work report for the year to mixed snores and applause, and delegates vote to approve it.

But even if the event seems rigidly pro forma, it’s very much a reflection of the times. And this year, the high degree of fixation on one 100-meter strip of red carpet is especially telling.

Known as the “Ministers’ Corridor” and located inside the Great Hall of the People, it has been where, for years, journalists have tried to catch ministers as they enter the main hall for China’s annual sessions of the National People’s Congress and a political-advisory body, known colloquially as the “Two Meetings.”

While that practice isn’t new, state media has lately given it wall-to-wall coverage–declaring it a symbol of China’s greater openness, in keeping with the tone struck by Xi Jinping at his address in Davos this year.

“Confident, Open, Transparent, The Two Meetings’ Ministers’ Corridor Reflects a New Trend,” read a headline by official news agency Xinhua.

“From ‘Avoiding Reporters’ to ‘Awaiting Reporters,’ Behind the ‘Ministers’ Corridor’ Increased Charm,” said a headline on the website of the People’s Daily.

This year, the government has rolled out an app through which people can submit questions to ministers, and state media touts the fact that more ministers than ever are pausing to make remarks before reporters, who stand in a roped-off area. Such officials have in recent days included some rarely given so public a profile, including the head of the government-petitions office, which channels complaints from citizens.

All this is of a piece with the party’s efforts to project itself in a new geopolitical era, says Anne-Marie Brady, a global fellow with the Wilson Center and political scientist at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand. “The Chinese Communist Party takes practices from Western democratic countries and tacks them onto a very nondemocratic political system,” she said, an opportunity for China to try to demonstrate a system “whereby the government is held to account and responds to the public and requests from the media for comment.”

“The minister’s corridor has become an important symbol of government officials’ communication with the public,” said an official with the State Council Information Office, adding that the public has embraced the idea.

Jaime FlorCruz, former CNN Beijing bureau chief who began covering the Two Meetings in the mid-1980s, says the event’s choreography has grown more extensive in recent years.

“I hate to use the word ‘savvy,’” he said. “It’s easier for us to get some access to these newsmakers, big and small, but the press conferences are less animated and more predictable because they are choreographed so tightly.” By contrast, press conferences in the 1990s with then-Premier Zhu Rongji were far more freewheeling, he said. “The questions were not vetted ahead of time, at least my questions were not.”

These days, sharper questions are occasionally raised, especially at smaller-venue events. However, veteran China reporters say that in recent years, delegates in attendance have become even less willing to engage with the press. (Bloomberg reported last year that delegates were explicitly cautioned against such interactions.)

Francesco Sisci, who has covered the Two Meetings for decades for Italian newspapers, says that other political shifts are clear, as well.

Back in 1992, for example, one-third of the National People’s Congress either voted against or abstained from voting on plans to move ahead with the controversial Three Gorges Dam.

These days, such dissent is far less in evidence.

“This to me is the starkest change,” says Mr. Sisci. In the 1990s, he says, there was a robust discussion about trying to make the NPC a more politically autonomous body. Now, he says, “the party has become more and more the center of attention.”

A Wall Street Journal tally of the words used in this year’s work report found more references to the “party” than any year since 1979, the year Deng Xiaoping kicked off China’s economic reforms.

In the past, while the Two Meetings were an opportunity for the country’s online chattering classes to rev up their criticisms–and circulate photos of sleeping delegates–Mr. Xi’s administration has clamped down on critical commentary online amid a broader crackdown on public expression.

“Critiques from social media used to be rife with a lot of satire,” Ms. Brady says. “Now, it’s a much, much tighter information environment.”

The event has also gotten a lot more staid. In previous years, China’s Two Meetings were known to adjourn into lavish buffets and evening karaoke sessions. After Mr. Xi’s austerity campaign, officials are more likely to brag about their thrifty suppers and early-to-bed ways.

–Te-Ping Chen