Ashok Leyland has been making BS IV vehicles since 2010 and has sufficient capability and capacity to make BS IV vehicles.

Ashok Leyland Limited (ALL) has admitted that it will be marginally impacted by Wednesday’s Supreme Court order, banning sale of all BS III vehicles effective April 1 across the country. The company, however, said that it has only limited number of BS III vehicles and it will sell them in the next two days based on the customers’ orders and whatever inventory beyond the deadline will be exported to those markets which operate on BS III norms. In a communication, Vinod K Dasari, managing director and CEO, Ashok Leyland, said: “Contrary to the various report about the company having to take a huge write-off of BS III inventories, we would like to clarify that in-fact the impact will be minimal.”

Ashok Leyland has been making BS IV vehicles since 2010 and has sufficient capability and capacity to make BS IV vehicles. However, since BS IV commercial vehicles cannot run properly on BS III fuel – and such fuel is not available nationwide – customers continued to buy BS III vehicles.

“Given the current demand, majority of the vehicles in the pipeline have already been sold. Some more will be sold in the next couple of days where we have customer orders. Of the little inventory that we expect to remain beyond this, we will export them to other markets where we have significant presence and still operate on BS III norms. Finally, for any other vehicles still leftover, the company confirms that it will be able to easily upgrade them to BS IV at minimal cost,” he added.

Also Watch:

Meanwhile, Toyota Kirloskar Motor in a statement said that it is concerned about the increasing pollution levels which needs immediate attention from all walks of life. Toyota Kirloskar has stopped manufacturing of BS III vehicles more than a year ago. “All our vehicles currently being sold in India are BS IV compliant. Here, we would urge the Government also to put in place an enabling framework to phase out BS I & BS II vehicles,” it said.