The issue of wage settlement for tea workers in the Bengal belt is developing into a major crisis for the industry, with seven lakh tea workers in the region yet to receive fresh wages after a three-year long wait. The pending issue is affecting the industry, which contributes significantly to the economy of the foothills.

While the tea trade unions are adamant on their demands, planters are not ready to accept them. A committee formed by the state government has not been able to generate any positive result in two years. Involvement of the Union commerce minister too has not been able to break the stalemate. The daily wage for tea workers is negotiated for a term of three years, a system prevailing since 1977. New negotiation began in February 2014 for the term ending on March 31, 2014. The negotiation, however, has been stuck over the last three years.

A joint forum of almost all major tea trade unions, including those affiliated to CITU and INTUC started demanding abolition of wage negotiation system and wanted a wage structure as per the Minimum Wage Act. The INTTUC of Bengal's ruling party Trinamool Congress, however, stayed off the conglomeration while asking for a freshly negotiated wage structure.

Following nine rounds of meetings since April 2014, the state government formed a special committee compri sing of representatives from planters, workers and the government to propose a new wage structure based on the Minimum Wage Act.

However, as per CITU Secretary for Darjeeling district, Saman Pathak, not much has been achieved. “Nothing practically has come out of the committee till date. All seem to have completely forgotten the matter. The workers are gradually getting restless and that is not illegitimate“.

Veteran planters also voiced their concern and said, “We are ready to accept any wage structure under any system. But, that should be acceptable and rational. Due to the scuffle between workers and the government, planters are now cornered from both sides.Any hasty and populist settlement, accepted by the government, will come as unjustified financial overload for us. On the other side, delay in settlement may ignite aggressive workers movement. That will badly damage the industry“.