Fund-raising led by RNT Capital to boost cab co's valuation to $3.5 b

Ola is in advanced talks to raise fresh capital of about ` . 650 crore ($100 million) led by RNT Capital Advisers, a venture fund set up by Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata, according to two people aware of the deal. India's largest ridehailing app is also negotiating further funding of $200 million from other investors, the sources said, as it looks to enhance its lead over San Francisco-based rival Uber, which is battling a series of management and regulatory hurdles in its home market.

RNT Capital is expected to lead the round with an investment of $60 million with the rest coming from New York-based hedge fund Falcon Edge Capital, which is an existing investor in Ola, said one person cited above.

If the deal goes through, Ola's valuation will rise to $3.5 billion, a small but significant boost to the Bengaluru-based company , which last raised capital from its biggest backer Japan's SoftBank in November 2016 at a valuation of about $3 billion. It was, at that time, the first down round --a term used to define a fundraise at a lower valuation -for an Indian internet company valued at over $1billion. “This new $100 million commitment (will happen) at a higher valuation,“ said one person aware of the development.

Ola, UC Investments and Tata did not reply to email queries from ET. The proposed funding will also be the first major transaction by RNT Capital, which has set up a $250million corpus with University of California Investments (UC Investments) to invest in Indian companies. UC Investments manages a corpus of $100 billion across endowment and pension funds, and announced the venture with Tata in February 2016. Tata, who has personally backed about three dozen startups, made an investment of about ` . 1 crore in Ola's parent company ANI Technologies in 2015. Ola has, so far, raised about $1.5 billion in funding.

The latest capital infusion comes at a time when Ola's market share has improved and burn rate has reduced as the company trims incentives to drivers. “Business has really improved (in recent months) and Ola is cutting incentives aggressively,“ the person said.

Industry estimates place the market share for Ola at around 65% with Uber holding the second slot in the taxi aggregation business. In 2016, Ola and Uber together clocked a near four-fold increase in the number of rides compared to the previous year, according to a report by research and advisory firm RedSeer Management Consulting.

Ola's plan to work closely with the government and introduce electric vehicles in the top cities in the country in the next three months is expected to boost prospects for the Indian company .

According to analysts and employees at Ola, the company clocked about 6 million weekly rides on an average between September and December 2016, across all its offerings -cabs, auto rickshaws and shuttle buses. The major source of revenues for both Ola and Uber--around 70-75% -comes from their eco nomy services including Ola Micro, Mini and UberGo, anala ysts said.

Experts are of the view that the fund-rai sing momen tum, led by Ola's cofounder Bhavish Aggar wal, is likely to increase the pressure on Uber as the American company battles multiple challenges.Uber -one of the world's most well financed startups having raised $15 billion in equity and debt -had stepped up the pace of its investments in India last year, after it sold its Chinese operations to local rival Didi Chuxing.

But it has faced significant headwinds since then as a former employee detailed alleged instances of sexual harassment in a widely-read blog post in February . Uber has also been slapped with an intellectual property lawsuit from Alphabet-owned Waymo. Cofounder Travis Kalanick has since moved to identify a chief operating officer for the embattled company .

“Since Uber has been operational for 2-3 years, investors will start asking questions related to profitability ,“ an analyst tracking the space told ET on the condition of anonymity .