An officer stands guard as police cordon off a large area around a subway station on a busy commercial street Saturday night, April 8, 2017, after finding what they described as a “bomb-like” device, in Oslo, Norway. (Fredrik Varfjell /NTB scanpix via AP) An officer stands guard as police cordon off a large area around a subway station on a busy commercial street Saturday night, April 8, 2017, after finding what they described as a “bomb-like” device, in Oslo, Norway. (Fredrik Varfjell /NTB scanpix via AP)

Police in the Norwegian capital of Oslo said they neutralized an explosive device found in a busy area of downtown Oslo late Saturday night and said they had arrested a suspect. Police Chief Vidar Pedersen confirmed that the device, initially described as “bomb-like,” was an explosive. The police Twitter account said it had been defused or neutralized. Police would not give any details about the suspect, or further information about the device. Pedersen said the device was found on the street just outside the Groenland underground station, and police swept through the area to remove people from bars and restaurants. “Every restaurant was being closed,” said 23-year-old Malin Myrvold, who witnessed the scene from a fourth-story window. “You could see cops in heavy armor going in every store and restaurant.

“We were trying to see what was going on. The police were screaming at us to get back inside and stay where we were,” she added by telephone. Norway was put on high alert after neighboring Sweden suffered a truck attack in the capital that killed four people and injured 15. The suspect in Friday’s attack, a 39-year-old native of Uzbekistan, has been arrested. It was unclear whether he was also a Swedish citizen or resident or even how long he’d been in the country.

The Norwegian incident happened less than a mile from the government buildings that were damaged in a deadly bomb attack carried out by right wing extremist Anders Breivik in 2011. That bomb and a subsequent gun massacre killed a total of 77 people.

For all the latest World News, download Indian Express App now