BENGALURU: The Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority (KLCDA) has threatened action against the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) for what it termed “neglect“ of lakes under its custody .The Lake Authority , which is the statutory body responsible for the protection of lakes, has identified at least eight water bodies in the city where the BDA, it feels, has not executed development work as expected.The agency has been asked to furnish the list of officers responsible for the maintenance of the eight lakes, how much money had been spent on the lakes and told to explain why action should not be initiated as per lake development laws.This is the first time that the lake protection body is threatening to act against the BDA, which has come under severe scrutiny for the poor maintenance of lakes. ET had reported last week that the BDA had spent only 37% out of `62 crore meant for the purpose.BDA Commissioner Rakesh Singh, who has moved to the agency just a month ago, denied any knowledge of such a letter from the Lake Authority . “I will see what can be done about it,“ he responded, when the condition of lakes was mentioned. The BDA, however, is seriously pursuing plans to revive Bellandur lake and plans to repli cate its success in Varthur lake. The tender process for the revival of Bellandur lake is in progress.The eight lakes that Lake Authority is unhappy about are: Arkere, Byrasandra, Varthur, Somasundarapalya, Hulimavu, Alahalli, Chandrashekara Pura and Banaswadi. “A cursory inspection shows that there's a need to take a relook at lakes under the BDA's custody,“ KLCDA chief executive G Vidyasagar told ET. “Serious action needs to be taken to get work done.“For example, the Alahalli lake is yet to get a wetland despite the BDA spending Rs 5 crore on its development. As a result, the lake continues to be awash with sewage.In another instance, illegal dumping of garbage was found at the Srigandha Kaval lake. Then, at the Dodda-nekkundi lake, fencing is yet to happen. “As it turns out, some of the work indicated in the detailed project report have not been done. But at the same time, money has been spent,“ Vidyasagar said.“Watchdogs such as the KLCDA questioning the BDA, which is Karnataka's most corrupt government department, is welcome. In fact, the BDA should be dismantled and replaced with a more nimble and transparent organisation,“ Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar said.However, lake expert S Vishwanath is not entirely convinced. “It's good that someone is trying to hold the BDA accountable for the capital expenditure on lakes. But bureaucrats love writing letters. We need action on the ground to restore lakes.“