Apollo Clinics, which brings the services of physician, diagnostics, patient care, pharmacy under one roof in the neighbourhood, will touch the 100-mark by Mrach 2018 from the present 78, according to Neeraj Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Apollo Health and Lifestyle Limited (AHLL).

Talking to BusinessLine at the launch of the 78th multi speciality clinic at Uppal here today, Garg said the expansion will be in towns spread across the country. At present, the clinics are in 31 cities and towns. “We are in all states except J&K and Himachal. Highest is in Bengaluru(11), followed by Hyderabad (8), Chennai (6) and Pune (4)”, he said.

Half of the total clinics are company owned at present. The way forward is to pursue a mix of own and franchisee. In Hyderabad all are company owned. The franchisee is chosen on the basis of the long term interest in healthcare. Overall the typical Clinic will be largely a “cut, copy, paste’ model, easy to replicate with standards laid down by Apollo, Garg claimed.

The investment in each Clinic, which aims to be a family care centre will be between Rs 2-2.5 crore. The AHLL, a subsidiary of Apollo Hospitals Enterprises had attracted a 450 crore equity investment last year end, part of which it will use for expansion of the format.

Neeraj said AHLL at present is into 6 primary care formats that include Clinics, Sugar, Diagnostics, Cradle, White (Dentistry) and Spectra (surgical). Expansion into Dialysis and Fertility is beginning.

Though the first Clinic was launched way back in 2002, the push has come in the last couple of years. “We expect the format to take off once outpatient insurance starts growing in the country. At present Apollo Munich, Star Health Insurance among others offer this”, he said.

In diagnostics, the strength is 40 own Laboratories in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. There are also 185 collection centres.

The Telangana State Minister for Home, Naini Narasimha Reddy launched the Clinic at a function today.

(This article was published on April 14, 2017)

Related