With the start-up froth settling down, job seekers are looking once again at ‘traditional’ companies. ‘Old-age’ firms that retained most of their employees over the last two years even as start-ups began to bleed financially and resorted to attritions and closures.

“We have noticed less than 5 per cent attrition. People now again want a longer association with the company they join and look for job security,” Manu Sharma, HR Head, Hero Electric, a leading e-vehicle maker since 2007, told BusinessLine.

About the start-up boom that witnessed astronomical salaries being offered, he said money could be a great motivator initially, particularly in the first or second jobs. But soon people realise these jobs don’t offer longevity.

The start-up boom was like the credit card boom, with initial enthusiasm giving way to a cautious approach due to the hidden costs involved. “India is largely a country of those who like to save more and, at the very best, spend only what they have in their pocket. Clearly, astronomical salaries could be compared with credit cards involving hidden costs,” he said.

Eco-Rent-A-Car registered 18 per cent attrition in 2015-16 and 20 per cent in 2016-17.

“Most start-ups did not play according to business rules. They tried to achieve higher topline and valuations to attract funding, instead of focusing on profits and gaining new customers. Selling below the cost bleeds them and they soon lose out on money as well as customers,” said Aditya Loomba, Joint Managing Director, Eco-Rent-A-Car, that came into existence in 1996.

“We focus both on topline and bottomline.”

He said start-ups could not show profitability despite providing deep discounts that increased their costs. “In our company, many people are working since the last 20 years. We work like a family and provide fresh job opportunities within the company to our employees before taking in external candidates.”

Loomba said any artificial incentives may lure job seekers for some time. Once these incentives are stopped, it becomes disastrous both for the company and its staff. Astronomical salaries often ruin careers vis-à-vis those getting market salaries.

ExportersIndia.com, a Delhi-based B2B marketplace incepted in 1997, witnessed 28 per cent and 24 per cent attrition during 2015-16 and 2016-17, respectively. “We even recruited about 2-5 per cent of our staffers who had left and wanted to join again. They needed no training and could start work on day one,” said Sunil Kumar Gupta, Founder-Director.

In such ‘traditional’ companies, he said, the employees are aware of the firm’s presence in the market, the processes are well-defined, and the hierarchies clear. In a start-up, Gupta pointed out, a highly-paid, multi-tasking official is over-stretched. But promotions are offered to youngsters more than to experienced ones. This creates an unhealthy work culture, job dissatisfaction and more attrition.

(This article was published on April 17, 2017)

Related