Coming down heavily on the post TTV Dinakaran's involvement in an alleged bribery row, the opposition parties on Monday demanded stern action against Sasikala Natarajan's nephew for undermining the country's democratic set up.

Senior leader TKS Elangovan said this shows the desperation on part of the Sasikala camp.

"It's very shameful that they have gone to the extent of bribing the EC. If they have the majority than they should prove it. If they are bribing the EC than it proves that they don't have the majority," he said while putting the ball in the Election Commission's court.

The leader further said this is a corrupt government, which is least concerned for the people and has put all its focus on grabbing money and power.

"The is a corrupt party. The is a headless body now," he told ANI in Chennai.

Communist Party of India (CPI) leader D. Raja on his part said this incident is extremely shameful.

"There are some political parties and leaders, who think that they can buy anything in democracy, they think they have money power and they can go to an extent of bribing. There must be stringent action against such leaders and political parties. They are really undermining the democratic quality of the country," Raja told ANI.

"Corruption has become such a cancerous thing in our democracy. Law must take this course without any delay," he added.

Asserting that the duty of a constitutional body the Election Commission is to conduct free and fair elections, the CPI leader demanded a high-level probe into the matter.

"Now we come to know that there are some elements or suspects which promote corruption. And I urge the Election Commission to go on high-level probe that who are those people in the Election Commission," he added.

Tamil Nadu Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Tamilisai Soundarajan echoing similar sentiments said it's a new version of corruption, adding this is a shameful attitude on part of the Sasikala faction.

"They don't have moral rights to continue in the government since they have been indulging in corruption," he added.

Dinakaran was earlier in the day named an accused in the FIR filed by the Delhi Police Crime Branch for allegedly offering bribe for his party's 'two leaves' symbol, which was declared suspended a few weeks ago.

The police action came in the wake of arrest of an alleged middleman named Sukesh Chandrasekhar from Hyatt hotel last night.

The Delhi Police's case against Dinakaran comes even as a major crisis looms in the state government with a section of ministers revolting against him and seeking his resignation as party deputy general secretary.

Dinakaran has, however, cried foul while stating that he does not know accused middleman.

"I will legally face if any summon comes to me from the Delhi Police. I don't know anybody by this name Sukesh Chandrasekhar (alleged middleman). I haven't bribed anyone for anything," Dinakaran said.

Dinakaran's faction contested on the 'hat' symbol after the Election Commission froze their 'two leaves' symbol acknowledging the split in the party.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)