IPOs will be robust this year and investors can make 25 30% returns if issues are priced well, saidmanaging director atwhich managed fund-raising deals worth about Rs 26,600 crore in 2016-17. In an interview, Mehta told Sanam Mirchandani that consumption sector companies would be a preferred theme, and organised sector will benefit the most because of GST.Edited excerpts:It will be a good year again for IPOs as the quality of companies that will be raising capital is very good and if the IPOs are priced properly, one can make decent returns. But to beat last year's returns of 80%-plus on IPOs will be tough. One has to be realistic and look to make 25-30% return.It was attractively priced and due to the move from unorganised to organised sector, they will be one the biggest beneficiaries. They have the best management and business model. Investors wanted to invest in the retail sector and there were not too many options. If the economy doesn't do well, even they will also suffer like others.Their business model too depends on what happens in the country though they will be far better off than others as they have done it more efficiently with a low-cost model and a conservative approach.The consumption story is going to be more preferred as they reflect the India story. The deal sizes are going to be larger and the quality of the deals is going to be far superior. General insurance companies and solar energy firms are going to come as well.Dilip Buildcon, which listed last yea has done very well. This shows peo ple can make money in infrastructure companies subject to one getting the right company to invest at the right value.It depends on what is the underlying asset and what is the profile of the project. There are some taxation issues which will be clarified soon.Banks are also allowed to invest now. The size of REITs and InvITs this year is also going to be large. It is good for the country and the sector because we needed these highyielding products.There will be divestments and strategic sales this year. The government is smartly divesting via ETFs and not hitting the market with large deals on single stocks . You will see a lot of ETFs coming this year. Last year was still a volatile year for the equity market but this year -unless we get a bad monsoon , major global crisis or oil moves up -there will be decent money raised via divestments.Valuations are expensive and people are underestimating the supply of paper that will come over the next year including divestments. But the domestic liquidity is the key difference between all other bull markets and this bull market. India is much better placed fundamentally in the global pack. Oil prices and low interest rates are a huge plus for India.Also, money parked in banks will ultimately come to equity as real estate and gold are not doing well. Investors are smartly investing in SIPs so it is not a bubble.Yes. There is `4,000-crore worth of money coming to SIPs every month.Just as SIPs took off as a product, ETFs (Exchange Traded Funds) will also do well. They will be the next.GST going through was a game changer event which the market is ignoring. The impact of digital India is still not understood very well.Some problems will be there but the organised sector will benefit the most. Those are the listed stocks one should buy. The only thing which is now pending is the real kick-start to the economy or spending of money on infrastructure in a big way. The private sector has not contributed to the capex story of India.A lot of money has moved to passive vs active investment globally and that passive money is also coming to India in a big way. If passive money starts moving away from emerging markets due to global events, India could also get the brunt. Monsoon is once again an important factor and a bad monsoon coupled with farmloan waivers can be a huge risk to the India story. In case any other investment option domestically like real estate, gold and fixed deposits become attractive, then money may move out of stock markets. Most importantly, earnings miss is the biggest risk to markets.The next rally will be led by infrastructure companies, private banks and domestic consumption, and organised players will do well because of GST.