Knight Riders (KKR) bowling coach Lakshmipathy Balaji on Saturday said it's hard to plan against the likes of Virat Kohli and Chris Gayle of Royal Challengers Bangalore, likening it to an armyman going to war.

"It's hard to plan. It's like an armyman going to the battlefield," Balaji said smiling when asked whether the KKR bowling unit will be able to contain Kohli and Gayle who is in good form.

The KKR bowlers had taken a hammering in their last match on Friday when Gujarat Lions' skipper Suresh Raina smashed 84 runs off just 46 deliveries. KKR lost the match by four wickets.

"You may have a lot of planning but on the contact of the innings you try to disorient a little bit. But the important thing is what we can control. The very good thing is we got five wickets (against Gujarat Lions). When you keep doing that, the outcome takes care of its own," Balaji said.

The 35-year-old former India pacer backed his bowlers after an underwhelming outing against Gujarat, saying the fact that they are nearing the 40-wicket mark this season is satisfying.

"We have reached nearly 40 wickets. It's about wickets. Don't go by runs because as a bowler your destination depends on how many wickets you take and not by economy rate," he said.

"You may bowl a couple of maidens but wickets are important as a bowler. We will improve in a couple of areas."

The KKR bowlers have so far taken 38 wickets in six matches. Left-arm wrist spinner Kuldeep Yadav has been the most successful among their bowlers with six scalps to his name.

Asked about RCB being a batting heavy team with the news of South African star batsman AB de Villiers returning to their line-up, Balaji said: "Twenty 20 is all about on that day what you do.

"It doesn't matter what you do, batting decides the outcome most of the times. I feel like when you look at it individually and skillwise, we have all the set of skills and have been playing good cricket."

"We have to look at our limitations. We cannot control the opposition. We can control many things which we are doing and that's why we are in the top three," he added.

KKR are second in the IPL table with eight points from six outings.

--IANS

dm/ajb/bg

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)