Many countries across the world are admired for their employee-benefit systems and work-life balance. Similarly, there are organisations that bag the `great place to work' awards year after year and have enviable retention rates. It's not that other countries or organisations don't have employee-friendly policies or practices. They do. But one aspect they fall short on is that they cease to view employees as human beings at all times and instances. Treating employees as people is a continuous process.A female employee having a child is a great example of where there is a need to manage people and not manage staff as just workers.

We have seen that maternity leave and child care is one of the biggest challenges for working women. This is almost the single largest reason for most women to drop out of the workforce. The lack of a robust support system forces them to make a choice between their child and work. Businesses and econo mies both need a diverse workforce for better productivity and growth. Hiring large numbers of women at entry-level is not the answer. We are already witnessing the leaky pipeline and high attrition among female talent at the midmanagement levels. There is a definite need for measures that will ensure women can come back to work after the life-event of having a child and are able to succeed in both endeavours.

According to the Global Gender Report 2015 by the World Economic Forum, India ranks 139th when it comes to the Economic Participation and Opportunity pillar. Clearly, this indicates that India is hugely missing out on leveraging the economic potential of women that also constitute almost half its population.

The new Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Bill 2017 is a welcome move by our government in supporting working mothers. The increase of paid maternity leave to 26 weeks from 12 weeks is a big step in this direction. Women can now take care of their infant at the very critical growth stage, without any loss of pay. The advantage of additional time and money will surely ease the pressure women felt on having to return to work after just three months.The New Maternity Bill has also provided women with the opportunity to plan motherhood better. This in itself will encourage more women to come back to work after maternity leave. The Bill is expected to benefit at least 1.8 million women, which is a positive start. Susan Wojcick, CEO of You Tube, has expressed how parent company Google (now Alphabet) halved the rate at which new mothers quit by just increasing paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 18 weeks in 2007. She has written in her Huffington Post blog “It may sound counterintuitive, but the research ­ and Google's own experience ­shows a generous paid maternity leave actually increases retention. When women are given a short leave or they're pressured to be on call, some decide it's just not worth it to return.“

The introduction of the Bill has its fair share of issues to tackle such as how does this impact sizeable women workforce in the unorganised sector; while larger companies can afford the cost of increased maternity leave, how will SMEs and startups manage; will the Bill discourage the hiring of women and so on.

Every change comes with challenges, but that cannot be a limitation for the improvement we need. According to a 2015 report by McKinsey Global Institute, women contribute just 17% of India's GDP compared to the global average of 37%. India can increase its 2025 gross domestic product (GDP), estimated at $4.83 trillion, by between 16% and 60% by simply enabling women to participate in the economy on par with men.

We cannot change nature's role of women and men. We can make alterations in our thinking and actions that empower women and men with improved choices, equal opportunities and a better approach to life.