The May 14 elections to seven municipalities in West Bengal will be a direct fight between the BJP's pro-Hinduvta campaign and Mamata Banerjee's politics of defection. Even though Congress and CPM are in the fray , the actual fight will be restricted between BJP and Trinamool Congress.

Last month's by-election to Contai (South) assembly seat indicated a straight fight between BJP and Trinamool in the civic polls, as the saffron brigade finished second in the by-election, while CPM and Congress lost their election deposits. The BJP is optimistic about better results in the civic polls after holding rallies across the state on Ramnavami.

“We will certainly fare well in this civic elections. Mamata Banerjee and her leaders are now busy projecting themselves as Hindus and that is our success. It is our chief minister who tried her best to serve a particular community by ignoring the fact that ours is a secular government, which cannot give special benefits to any community on the basis of religion. Fearing retaliation from another community in this civic elections, the chief minister and her leaders are now busy projecting themselves as Hindus,“ BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. He added: “We were highly criticised for organising armed rallies on the day of Ramnavami. But all those criticisms were politically motivated. We finished second at Contai despite such criticisms.“

Seven municipalities, including Kurseong, Darjeeling and Mirik in Darjeeling district, Kalimpong municipality, which falls under the newly-created Kalimpong district, Pujali in South 24-Parganas district, Raigunj municipality in North Dinajpur district and Domkal civic b o d y i n Murshidabad will go to polls on May 14. Results will be declared on May 17. In all the four civic bodies in Dar jeeling dis trict, the fight will remain confined between BJP and its ally Gorkha Janamukti Morcha, and TMC. BJP won Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat in 2014 with support from the GJM. It is now BJP's moral responsibility to ensure victories of GJM.

Last year, GJM had won all three seats of Kalimpong, Kurseong and Darjeeling. But Banerjee and her party had managed to split the GJM as its MLA from Kalimpong Harka Bahadur Chhetry resigned from the party as well as from the assembly and joined Trinamool Congress.