French elections results are out and 39-year-old pro-EU centrist Emmanuel Macron has become the youngest President of France.

French elections results are out and 39-year-old pro-EU centrist Emmanuel Macron has become the youngest President of France. He has defeated his far-right rival Marine Le Pen in a run- off vote. Macron’s victory marked the third time in six months — following elections in Austria and the Netherlands — that European voters have shot down far-right populists across Europe. Thousands of flag-waving supporters gave Emmanuel Macron a rapturous welcome as he strode into the courtyard of the Louvre museum to the strains of the French national anthem after his decisive election victory. The glass pyramid in the world-famous courtyard glowed golden as Macron made a solitary walk yesterday to a stage in front, looking solemn. “Tonight, France won,” he cried to the crowds who yelled with joy. Congratulatory messages poured in for Macron from a host of leaders of countries across the world and they have given their thumbs-up. Almost all the leaders have expressed their desire to take bilateral ties between their respective countries with France to a new level.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Macron for the stunning victory saying he is looking forward to working closely with him to further strengthen the bilateral relations. “Congratulations to @EmmanuelMacron fr an emphatic victory in the French Presidential election. #Presidentielle2017,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted. “I look forward to working closely with President-elect @EmmanuelMacron to further strengthen India-France ties,” he added.

US President Donald Trump has congratulated Emmanuel Macron on his ‘big win’ in the French presidential election. “Congratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next president of France. I look very much forward to working with him!” Trump tweeted after the poll results came in.

Chinese President Xi Jinping congratulated Emmanuel Macron on Monday for winning France’s presidential election and said China was willing to further ties between the two U.N Security Council permanent members, China’s Xinhua news agency reported.

UK

“The Prime Minister warmly congratulates President-elect Macron on his election success. France is one of our closest allies and we look forward to working with the new President on a wide range of shared priorities,” said a Downing Street spokesman. Prime Minister Theresa May also discussed Brexit with Macron, saying “the UK wants a strong partnership with a secure and prosperous EU once we leave,” the spokesman added.

Germany

“Congratulations, @EmmanuelMacron. Your victory is a victory for a strong and united Europe and for French-German friendship,” said Chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman.

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said “the victory of President-elect Macron is a symbolic victory against inward- looking and protectionist moves and shows a vote of confidence in the EU”.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he wanted to work together with Macron on a “progressive agenda” to “promote international security, increase collaboration in science and technology, and create good, middle-class jobs on both sides of the Atlantic”.

Australia

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said he had congratulated Macron and had received a text back saying he was “looking forward to working together”. Highlighting the cooperation between French and Australian soldiers during World War I, he added: “We have been side-by-side in freedom’s cause for over a century, and we are side-by-side in freedom’s cause in the Middle East today. So we have great work to do to make the ties between France and Australia stronger still.”