Blue Mountains Council wants Google HQ to relocate

Google HQ be warned. Blue Mountains City Council wants you.

Liberal councillor Brendan Christie is on a campaign to get the tech giant to consider the Blue Mountains for their next Australian headquarters.



At the council meeting on May 2 he convinced his colleagues to give their support to writing to the tech giant urging them to consider moving to the world-heritage listed region and giving Katoomba the chance to shine as a silicon city. Blue Mountains Economic Enterprise have been asked to add their economic weight to the letter too.

Google walked away from negotiations last month with the NSW government to redevelop a dilapidated power station in Sydney’s inner west following public transport concerns. When it was announced in 2015 the project was dubbed by former Premier Mike Baird as a future “silicon harbour”.

Opposition Leader Luke Foley said "you won't get companies like Google and their talented mobile workforce to relocate to a precinct unless that precinct has public transport, accessibility and open space”.

But Clr Christie says the Mountains ticks all the boxes.



“It’s perfect. Let’s capitalise on this [decision]– Google being a creative body and it intends to be 100 per cent carbon neutral by 2017. Since they're goal is to be carbon neutral, Blue Mountains environmental credentials make a Google/Blue Mountains partnership an ideal fit,” he said.



“Fairfield has just got Amazon, if a tech giant wants to go there I am sure one wouldn’t mind coming to our world-heritage city.”



Cr Christie said sites like Katoomba’s Renaissance Centre [which is owned by a private developer] offered 5000 m2 of office space and a 17,000 m2 block of land.



“It’s an option, I have no doubt in my mind they could pick that up and do it up, they’ve got the cash to refurbish.”



He added Katoomba was also 15 minutes from Wentworth Falls TAFE “and we could shuttle all students around to their work site”. And it would be a huge shot in the arm for youth unemployment which was about 17 per cent in the Mountains, he added.

“It would revitalise Katoomba and the flow on effect across the Mountains would be massive.”

A Google spokesman told the Gazette that the company was not considering sites outside of the Sydney metropolitan area.