May 8 (UPI) -- The suspect in the brutal slaying of two engaged Boston doctors was arraigned on murder charges from his hospital bed on Monday.

Bampumim Teixeira, 30, faces life in prison without parole in the killings of Richard Field, 49, and Lina Bolaños, 38.

Two not-guilty pleas were entered by a judge at the hospital standing beside Teixeira, who was then ordered held without bail. A probable cause hearing is scheduled for June.

Teixeira was hospitalized at Tufts Medical Center with non-critical gunshot wounds. He was wounded by police officers Friday night as they responded to reports of an intruder at a luxury condominium in South Boston where the couple was found dead.

Teixeira suffered wounds to his left hand, abdomen and a leg, authorities said.

Prosecutors also said Monday that Teixeira did not fire on police officers, reversing the claim authorities made last week.

"No conclusions" had been reached on whether the officers' use of force was justified, Suffolk County District Attorney Daniel Conway said.

Conway also said Teixeira did not know the two victims, who sustained "obvious trauma." Police said they were bound and had their throats cut.

A backpack "filled with jewelry" presumably belonging to Bolaños was discovered "just inside the apartment door" and "in a remarkably conspicuous area," Suffolk County Assistant District Attorney John Pappas added.

One of the doctors sent a text message to a friend that read, "gunman in the house," authorities said. Officials said it's not clear how the killer entered the high-security building.

"Right now, that's the $64,000 question" one official said.

Teixeira previously served nine months of a one-year sentence for larceny when he was recently released, according to the district attorney's office.

Field and Bolaños were both anesthesiologists. She was chief medical officer at Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, and he was an employee of North Shore Pain Management.

"It is desperately hard for all of us to fathom that our friend who never failed to brighten our days is no longer with us," Sunil Eappen, chief of anesthesia at Massachusetts Eye and Ear, said.