MUMBAI: The Nifty and the Sensex continued their march to lifetime highs as market sentiment was lifted by the governmentrun pension fund’s likely decision to increase investments in stocks . Buoyant trade data and the monsoon’s expected arrival at the end of the month on the country’s southernmost tip also boosted stocks.The Nifty ended above 9,500 for the first time while the Sensex rose 260 points to close at a life high of 30,582.60. The Nifty has gained 32% in the past three years and is the best-performing index after China, the US, Germany and Japan. So far this year, however, the Nifty is the best-performing emerging market index with 16.2% gains compared with the Hang Seng’s 15.16% and Bovespa’s (Brazil) 13.69%.About 80 stocks on the BSE, including Hindustan Unilever, P&G, Maruti Suzuki, TVS Motor and UltraTech Cement, hit life highs on Tuesday. Shares of HUL, India’s biggest consumer goods company, crossed Rs 1,000 for the first time after its stock was split in the year 2000. It ended at Rs 998, up 1.6%. Maruti Suzuki gained 2.05% to Rs 6,953.There was a raft of positive news. Met department officials said on Tuesday that the monsoon would arrive in Kerala on May 30, two days before the scheduled date. Also, reports emerged that the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation may consider increasing its investment in exchange-traded funds to 15% of its corpus from about 10% last year. Labour minister Bandaru Dattatreya said EPFO’s Central Board of Trustees will consider the move on May 27.“The increased buying interest seems to be stemming from better-than-expected result season and predictions of normal monsoon while the uncertainties on global landscape have also been receding,” said Kunj Bansal, CIO, Centrum Wealth Management.“The sector rotation play continues with bellwether stocks from the consumer pack, which would benefit from this recovery, giving leadership to the market.”The BSE FMCG index gained almost a per cent while stocks related to agri products also rallied.Shares of Avanti Feeds surged 13% to Rs 1,210.Telecom stocks also advanced, with the BSE Telecom index rising over 2% as Bharti Airtel , Bharti Infratel and Idea Cellular gained 2-3%.Adani Power rose as much as 11% after the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) granted full compensation to the company for the rise in cost of production at its power plant in Mundra, Gujarat.Foreign institutions bought equities for the fifth straight day. On Tuesday, they invested Rs 860 crore while domestic institutions sold stocks worth Rs 402 crore, according to provisional BSE numbers. FIIs have boughtRs 45,600 crore of stocks so far this year while domestic institutions have shopped for shares worthRs 23,000 crore.India’s merchandise exports grew in double digits in dollar terms for the third consecutive month in April. Data released by the government on Monday showed that exports grew 19.77% in April to $24.63 billion while imports rose 49.07% to $37.88 billion, leaving a trade gap of $13.24 billion.Fund managers are positive on the near-term market outlook. “A worry on monsoon has been addressed and oil prices have again had a weakening bias, and that helps,” said Prateek Agarwal, CIO, ASK Investment Managers.“Overall, we should be positive on the mid-term outlook with growth picking up and interest rates continuing to remain soft.” Though valuations are on the higher side, macros are better now than two or three years ago, said fund managers.“Clearly, markets have reached new highs and the valuations have moved up, but there is macroeconomic stability,” said Karthikraj Lakshmanan, fund manager, BNP Paribas Mutual Fund . “Macros look really good and corporate earnings growth is improving or growing in FY17. Demonetisation has had some temporary impact but FY18 looks good.”Many Asian markets climbed to two-year highs on Tuesday on the back of an overnight rise in Wall Street.Gold rose for the fourth day as the dollar eased on signs of slower economic activity in the US, which dented expectations of aggressive rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Oil prices, too, surged, extending gains after a joint announcement by top producers Saudi Arabia and Russia to push for an extension of supply cuts until the end of March 2018.