The driver of the car, Richard Rojas, 26, has been charged with murder, attempted murder, and aggravated vehicular homicide. He is in police custody.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

William Aubry, the assistant police chief in charge of Manhattan South detective squad, said Friday afternoon that Alyssa’s 13-year-old sister was being treated at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center for a collapsed lung and broken pelvis.

“Our heart goes out to Alyssa, her family and all those that were injured yesterday,” Chief Aubry said.

Photo

On Thursday evening, the girls’ father, Thomas Elsman, posted on Facebook that Ava was out of surgery and doing “ok.” He added, “and yes my daughter is gone and I love her so much.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ava was one of the people that Alyssa was completely herself around. She is as exuberant as Alyssa was quiet, said their great-grandmother, Clara May Jablonski, 83. “That’s sisterhood,” she said. “They were always close knit.” At home in Michigan, far from where her great-grandchild was killed, Ms. Jablonski worried over how Ava would handle the loss of her sibling, with whom she shared the same long brown hair and striking aqua-colored eyes.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It makes you want to stay home and hibernate,” Ms. Jablonski said. “Nothing is safe anymore, I’ve come to the conclusion. We’ve had a lot of loss in the family, and to have them go so young is unreal.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

On Friday morning, Ava sent her friend Grace Zak a message via Snapchat, saying she would be out of school for the rest of the year, said Grace’s mother, Kathy.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Alyssa worked as a carhop at the Sonic Drive-In in town, according to her Facebook profile. Her great-grandmother said that holding a job as well as getting an education was a deeply instilled family value.

Their father is the owner of Sporty’s Bar and Grill, in Paw Paw, Mich. They were on the trip to New York with their mother, Jyll Elsman, who is studying to be an accountant, Ms. Zak said.

In pictures on Instagram, Alyssa leans into the arms of her boyfriend, Trevor West. “She motivated me, loved me, gave me everything I needed that I couldn’t give myself,” Mr. West said in an interview with the New York Post on the day she was killed.

“And now that she’s gone, I don’t know how I’m going to fill that void,” he said.

“My son loved this girl fiercely and she brought him joy,” his mother, Stacey Vogl said in a text message on Friday. “Her life was taken much too soon.”