More social features are coming to Facebook Live so that you can create and enjoy more social experiences.

Facebook has already announced that its AR camera effects platform will be coming to Live, this latest announcement brings a couple other changes to the platform: Live Chat with Friends and Live With.

Comment streams on popular Live videos are a bit overwhelming at the moment, there’s a pretty torrential outpour of similar reactions to when something happens on video. Facebook says that there are actually ten times as may comments on Live vides as there are on regular recorded videos.

Ultimately, Facebook wants you to help you sift through the visual spam and have more meaningful interactions on these videos which is why they’re adding a feature that lets you easily live chat with friends.

When you create a private chatroom, you’ll have the option of inviting new people of just finding out who of your friends is already watching and toss them into a private room. It’s a way for Facebook to dial-in the wide-reaching Live platform and make it more personal for users. Users can still easily jump in between group feeds and friend chat, but enhanced filtering of public feeds seems like a feature Facebook would only further refine in Live.

In addition to the Live Chat with Friends feature, Facebook is launching a feature that will let you go live with another friend in a side-by-side conversation. This feature was previously available to public figures, but now it’s rolling out wide, allowing you to argue or chat with friends in a Live setting.

Live With basically allows you to FaceTime with your friends in a public setting, it’s a completely different way to capture social interaction and it definitely offers something new.

You have these conversations in landscape mode for a split-screen style or portrait for picture-in-picture mode as seen in the image.

Live With is open for all profiles and pages on iOS. Facebook is already testing Live Chat with Friends in a few countries and says they’ll be making it more widely available later this summer.