Oxa Health This startup is tying up with various hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and wellness centres to expand its offerings

When Shashank Shrivastava spent almost three months at a hospital in Mumbai in 2014 taking care of his grandfather, he met patients from various parts of the world, including Bangladesh and Africa.

During his interactions with them, the entrepreneur realised the problems they faced in getting good medical care in India -booking flights, finding cheap accommodations and their inability to speak English or a local language.

“One family spent thrice the amount for accommodation at the hospital since they were not able to find a cheap place to stay. This problem intrigued me and I started doing research to see what can be done for medical tourism in the country. I decided to create an end-to-end solution for the patients, starting with travel arrangements, accommodation, local cab services and help in translating the local language,“ said the 27-yearold Shrivastava. He had also been the founder of a solar purchase and installation startup, which did not take off.

The BITS Pilani alumnus started Oxa Medical in late 2016, first only with an offline presence. It has now integrated tech and online services as well. The startup recently expanded its vision to wellness and rebranded itself as Oxa Health. It has tied up with hospitals and clinics in Hyderabad and other cities.Other tie-ups include nursing homes and guest houses. Shrivastava did not reveal the names of these partners. He said Oxa is tying up with wellness centres in Kerala also.

Currently, the startup has a few translators to help patients travelling to India. It is also developing a tech platform based on artificial intelligence to help the patients in translating languages. Oxa also offers patients video consultations with doctors before their trip to India.

The startup includes Oxa Hubs, which identifies centres of specific treatments in the country and markets them to appropriate patients across the globe, seeking to reduce dependence on only big hospital brands and to create a brand of its own.

Oxa recently received pre-seed funding of $200,000 from Idein Ventures, which recently roped in Zoomcar cofounder David Back as its entrepreneur in residence.

“The best part about this company is that it focuses on a domain which remains untouched by conventional investors because of the operational headaches associated with it. We love Oxa because it has huge global potential in a multi-billion dollar market whose success depends on the global reach which we can provide,“ said Ashwin Shrivastava, director at Idein Ventures.

Other startups in the medical tourism sector include PlanMyMedicalTrip, TransEarth Healthcare Service and Vaidam, all of which have raised capital in recent years. The government is set to promote medical tourism and wellness in the country by bringing out its first such policy for this space next month, according to recent reports.