vice president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe today said that terror groups have become active in in a bid to stall the infrastructure development projects undertaken by the PDP- led



Referring to the Chenani-Nashri tunnel, he said, there has been a sudden rise in the terror attacks after Prime Minister Modi recently inaugurated the tunnel on the Jammu- national highway.

"It is a deliberate attempt by terror groups and separatists in Kashmir and some elements in other parts of the country, who are against various infrastructure development projects undertaken by the PDP- led government," he said."These groups have become active in the Valley to counter our government's success on the infrastructure development and other fronts," Sahasrabuddhe said.The leader was speaking here on the eve of the Modi-led completing three years in office."People have shown full confidence in the You have seen great success (of BJP) in the recent elections. Tough decisions like surgical strikes, demonetisation are being taken and people largely supported it," he said.On the issue of internal security, Sahastrabuddhe claimed that except for the Sukma incident, the naxal activities have been curbed. The naxal attack in Sukma in Chhattisgarh last month, had left 25 CRPF jawans dead."Naxal activities are under control and the Union government's drive has been effective enough. Such activities will be brought down further for sure," he said.On the Ayodhya Ram temple issue, Sahastrabuddhe said, "There have been three possibilities to solve the issue. To formulate a law; to follow the court's decision or to hold a dialogue to reach at a consensus. We have made it clear that the social conditions are not in favour of formulation of a law and the dialogue is yet to reach a consensus."Meanwhile, Maharashtra spokesperson Madhav Bhandari, when asked about the Centre's decision to import tur when Maharashtra and Karnataka have reported excess production, said, "Rates of tur procurement have not come down in Maharashtra. The state has given Rs 5,050 per quintal assurance rate and maximum tur has been purchased across the tur procurement centres.""Five lakh metric tonnes of tur has been purchased so far. Presently, 8,000 tonnes of tur dal is daily consumed in the country and we have not yet matched that level despite a rise in production. Hence, some tur dal was imported. We need to supply tur for next year as well," he said.

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)