Google co-founder Sergey Brin has been secretly building the largest aircraft in the world, according to inside sources.

The zeppelin-like craft will be nearly 200 metres (656ft) long and will come to a personal cost of $100 million - $150 million (£77 million - £116 million), reports say.

Brin wants to use the vast airship to deliver humanitarian supplies to remote locations while also serving as luxury 'air yacht' for friends and family.

Scroll down for video

The zeppelin-like craft will come to a personal cost of $100 million - $150 million (£77 million - £116 million), to Google co-founder Sergey Brin (pictured), reports say

THE SECRET CRAFT The airship is likely to be nearly 200 meters (656ft) long It is being built in a giant hangar on a Nasa airfield away from the eyes of the public It will deliver supplies and food on humanitarian missions to remote areas It may also serve as a luxury 'air yacht' for Sergey Brin to use privately The project's price tag at $100 million (£77 million) to $150 million (£116 million) It will be funded entirely by Sergey Brin.

'Sergey is pretty innovative and forward looking,' said Igor Pasternak, an airship designer who was involved in the construction of the airship which is currently hidden in a giant hangar.

'Trucks are only as good as your roads, trains can only go where you have rails, and planes need airports. Airships can deliver from point A to point Z without stopping anywhere in between', he said, writes the Guardian.

The airship will have internal gas bladders to keep it buoyant and can land in almost any terrain, sources say.

The airship is hidden inside Hangar 2 at the Nasa Ames Research Centre in Silicon Valley.

Insiders say Brin decided to build his airship around three years ago after visiting Ames regularly.

The craft takes up much of the vast hangar where it is being built.

'Sorry, I don't have anything to say about this topic right now', Brin wrote in an email when asked for comment by Bloomberg last month.

Alan Weston, who previously led Nasa's Ames programmes is leading the project and has spoken about the possibility of airships carrying freight.

'New airship technologies have the promise to reduce the cost of moving things per ton-mile by up to an order of magnitude', he said in a 2013 interview.

Sources say that Brin was inspired by old photos of the USS Macon, a lighter-than-air rigid airship that was the Navy's last flying aircraft carrier, used in the 1930s. It was operated by the US Navy and served as a 'flying aircraft carrier'

'A larger airship can reduce costs a lot more than a smaller ship, but there's design of a class of vehicles that can lift up to 500 tons that could be actually more fuel-efficient than even a truck', he added.

THE USS MACON The USS Macon crashed off the coast of California eighty years ago. The Macon was operated by the US Navy and served as a 'flying aircraft carrier,' designed to carry five biplanes for scouting and training. It was returning to Mountain View, California in February 1935 when it ran into a storm off Point Sur. Wind shear caused structural damage, puncturing gas cells and then a leak. The damage meant the 785-foot airship gently floated down into Monterey Bay off Point Sur in California, taking around 20 minutes to settle.

With these airships the overall lift of the vehicle is equivalent to the weight of air displaced by the helium.

'And as you change that, you can control the amount of buoyancy that the vehicle has', said Mr Weston, who did not respond to Bloomberg's request for comment.

Sources say that Brin was inspired by old photos of the USS Macon, a lighter-than-air rigid airship that was the Navy's last flying aircraft carrier, used in the 1930s.

The airship crashed off the coast of California eighty years ago when it was caught in a storm over Port Sur, California, killing two crew members.

The Macon was operated by the US Navy and served as a 'flying aircraft carrier,' designed to carry five biplanes for scouting and training.

The dirigible had been damaged in a previous incident in the mountains above Arizona.

It was returning to Mountain View, California in February 1935 when it ran into a storm off Point Sur.

Wind shear caused structural damage, puncturing gas cells and then a leak.

The damage meant the 785-foot airship gently floated down into Monterey Bay off Point Sur in California, taking around 20 minutes to settle.