PORTLAND, Ore. -- Authorities on Saturday identified a 35-year-old Portland man as the suspect in the fatal stabbing of two people on Northeast Portland light-rail train who yelled racial slurs at two young women, one of whom was wearing a hijab.

Court records show that Jeremy Joseph Christian was convicted of robbery, kidnapping and a weapons charge in 2002. Christian is being held in the Multnomah County Jail on suspicion of aggravated murder and attempted murder.

One man was dead at the scene and another died at a hospital. The third person was taken to a hospital with non-life threatening injuries, police said.

Witnesses told CBS affiliate KOIN-TV the suspect was yelling about hating Muslims for several minutes before people confronted him and the encounter turned violent.

Police say that before the stabbing the assailant on the train was ranting on many topics, using "hate speech or biased language."

Friday was the beginning of Ramadan, the holiest time of the year for Muslims, and the attack prompted soul-searching in Portland, a city that prides itself on its tolerance and liberal views. A memorial of flowers and signs quickly grew at the scene by a transit station.

Dyjuana Hudson, a mother of one of the girls, told The Oregonian that the man began a racial tirade as soon as he spotted the girls. Her daughter is African-American and was with a friend who was wearing a hijab, she said.

"He was saying that Muslims should die," Hudson said. "That they've been killing Christians for years."

The attack happened on a Metropolitan Area Express train as it headed east. A train remained stopped on the tracks at a transit center which was closed while police investigated.

Autopsies on the victims were being done Saturday. Their names have not been made public. Police say the victims were trying to stop Christian from confronting the girls.

"In the midst of his ranting and raving, some people approached him and appeared to try to intervene with his behavior and some of the people that he was yelling at," police Sgt. Pete Simpson told The Oregonian. "They were attacked viciously."

Christian is locally known as a right-wing extremist and white supremacist, according to the Portland Mercury newspaper. Police have not confirmed the report.

The paper reports Christian showed up to a right-wing "March for Free Speech" event on April 29 with a baseball bat that was quickly confiscated by police. "He ranted how he was a nihilist. He'd soon yelled racial slurs ... and gave the Nazi salute throughout the day," the Portland Mercury says.

Portland Police Chief Mike Marshman told KOIN-TV that Friday's attacks were tough to comprehend. "Even though I've been doing police work for a long, long time now, the shock of these senseless crimes still stunned me," he said. "Just horrific."

But Christian has had several encounters with the law.

In 2002, Christian, then 20, was arrested and charged with first-degree robbery and second-degree kidnapping after he rode to a convenience store on his bike and held up employees there with a gun, according to court records and his court-appointed defense attorney at the time, Matthew Kaplan.

When police caught up with him, Christian aimed the gun at himself in a suicide attempt before he was shot and injured by police, Kaplan said.

Christian was sentenced to more than seven years in prison after striking a plea deal that eliminated coercion and weapons charges.

Kaplan said he remembers the case vividly because Christian was so young, so earnest and had never been in trouble before. At the time, the attorney suspected the onset of mental illness to explain his actions and worried about how he would deal with a long prison sentence.

"It was so random, the event in his life. It made no sense that he did this at his age. He had no background like this, no history of violence and then he goes and gets a gun and robs a store," Kaplan told The Associated Press in a phone interview.

Christian had another brush with the law in 2010, when he was arrested on charges of being a felon in possession of a firearm and theft. Those charges were dismissed, according to court records, which do not explain why.