BENGALURU: When GST Network (GSTN), in charge of technological infrastructure for the new goods and services tax regime, opened its portal to taxpayer registration in November, it saw Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) — a cyber attack aimed at disrupting services and bringing down the host system.With the impending GST rollout, there are several cyber threats to GSTN, which is preparing to ward them off. Concerns have heightened after the recent ransomware attack and Legion hacking of social media data a few months ago. The attack and subsequent plans to build a cyber security unit was confirmed by two sources.“There were attempts from countries such as Pakistan and China to swarm the system with a DDOS attack and bring it down. GSTN was able to ensure the system was not disrupted,” said one source aware of the development. Another attack the GSTN system has seen is the Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF), an attack wherein a malware creates a Trojan, which can execute unwanted actions from the user’s end. The source cited above said GSTN has also put in place systems to prevent such malware attacks.The network did not respond to specific queries about cyber security threats. Experts feel GSTN can expect hacking attempts, given the importance of commercial data it will handle. “Regarding the threat landscape, it is as bad as it’s ever been, if not worse. Cyber crime is big business and is growing at an exponential rate,” said Rajesh Maurya, regional vicepresident, India & SAARC, at Fortinet , a global cyber security solutions company. “The biggest threat to the GSTN that could have financial implications is a DDOS attack, which will require a web application firewall to ensure availability.Given the GSTN’s importance to the government, I am sure it will definitely be implementing the best security framework with the highest possible encryption.” GSTN is preparing for other cyber attacks such as Man-inthe-Middle (MITM) and Clickjacking, said the source cited above. “MITM simply entails that there is a person eavesdropping while a communication is taking place, in this case from a GST service provider to the GSTN portal. However, the GSTN has ensured strict encryption standards to prevent such hacks,” said another source aware of GSTN’s security measures.“It is also important that companies offering GST solutions ensure SSL pinning (meant for encryption of data) to their GST applications to prevent MITM attacks,” said Akshat Jain of cybercesurity company Cyware. Himanshu Jain, CEO of LegalRaasta, which is building a GST solution and has also applied to become a GST Suvidha Provider (GSP), said it has integrated SSL in both its website and app application so as to ensure no third person can steal the financial data while in transmission.Cyware’s Jain said Clickjacking — wherein a user is tricked into clicking on a false link — may not be a major concern, since it is usually aimed at advertisements. He said proper awareness by GSTN and GSPs about their correct website links could help prevent taxpayers from being misled into wrong URLs. GSTN is taking steps to protect data from cyber attacks by not receiving any mails directly and and only through a help desk to avoid phishing attacks as well as partitioning and encrypting sensitive data so as to ensure that the entire data chain is not vulnerable.