The first step for the insurance industry was to improve search on the internet and to provide offerings that could be easily understood, played around with, and ultimately purchased online

Digitisation has emerged as the most efficient way to reach out to target customers. This applies for selling an insurance policy as well, which has traditionally been known as a ‘push’ product.

The first step for the insurance industry was to improve search on the internet and to provide offerings that could be easily understood, played around with, and ultimately purchased online. Across the industry, insurers have provided offerings to that effect, focusing heavily on user interface, articulation of product features and benefits, and ease of payments.

As a product category, since we rely on large amount of authenticated customer information (for underwriting the risk), it has pushed us to be innovative in designing our online forms and to look at unique ways of customer authentication (Aadhar-based verification is an example).

The next step is to incorporate the benefits of technology through digitisation. This includes automation of key processes, both on the sales side and in internal operations. Technology has to be employed in facilitating these interactions as well.

The question now arises on how to make use of digitisation for agents who often act as insurers’ face before the customers. Distributors have to have access to product collaterals, benefit illustrations, forms, etc., on their mobile devices, so that these can be shared on the point of sale with the customer as well. As far as internal processes go, some revisions in new business and servicing processes are also in order. Since the insurance industry manages many customer documents (KYC, income proofs, etc.), companies need to provide mechanisms where the customer / distributor can simply take a photograph and submit the image.

Digitisation of the sale process has helped to increase the amount of data generated in each customer interaction. This data can be used for further analytics, so that insurers can have an even more minute understanding of customer / distributor behaviour. The important thing is to then close the loop. This can be done by using analytics to design smarter offering for customers who prefer to interact directly.

Above all, the insurers have to see how digitisation can help them settle claims faster and more efficiently, which has been the industry's sore point since long.

The writer is chief distribution officer, Kotak Life Insurance