

The Cavaliers need LeBron James to continue his streak of 29 straight playoff series with a road win if they are to win the NBA Finals. (EPA/Larry W. Smith)

OAKLAND, Calif. — The last time LeBron James went through an entire NBA playoff series without winning a road game, he was playing for Cleveland. But it wasn’t with this incarnation of the Cavaliers. It was eight years and 29 playoff series ago, before he left for his four-year run in Miami.

It was so long ago, in fact, that the man serving as the coach of the Cavaliers at the time was Mike Brown, the same man who is now interim coach of the Golden State Warriors, the team currently battling James in these NBA Finals.

“Yes,” Brown said with a smile, when asked if that was weird to think about.

[Steph Curry is fully healthy, and both the Cavs and Warriors know it]

“It just speaks volumes to who he is as a player. He’s one of the greatest of all time. When you have his ability, when you have his intelligence and feel and all that other stuff, you’re able to lead your team in difficult situations and tough environments. So you take your hat off to him.”

If the Cavaliers want to have a serious chance of repeating as NBA champions, they’ll need James to continue his streak with a win Sunday night here at Oracle Arena in Game 2 of the NBA Finals. That would allow Cleveland to return home with the series even at a game apiece, and with renewed hope of a long series after being drubbed in Game 1.

And if anyone is capable of creating the kind of magic necessary to engineer a victory against the heavily favored Warriors, it’s James, who last failed to win a road game in a playoff series when the Cavaliers lost to the Orlando Magic in six games in the 2009 Eastern Conference finals.

To put that streak into context: these NBA Finals are the 30th playoff series James has participated in since that series against the Magic. By comparison, these NBA Finals mark the 30th playoff series the Warriors franchise has participated in since winning the title in 1975 — a fact that only underscores the number of playoff games James has played in during his career (a staggering 213 entering Sunday).

[Is this the year Kevin Durant finally catches LeBron James?]

“For me, I approach every game the same way, no matter if I’m at home or on the road,” James said. “But I understand the road is very challenging, especially when you get to this level, you get to the Finals, you get to the Eastern Conference finals.

“It’s very difficult to win on the road, and I’ve been fortunate to be able to do that in my career.”

Finding a way to do that Sunday will be crucial. The simple fact is this: The Warriors have home-court advantage, so if the Cavaliers are to successfully defend their title they will have to win at least once in Oakland. The urgency to do so Sunday night is also pretty simple: If the Cavaliers go down 2-0 in this best-of-seven series, they will need to win four of the next five — against a team that includes all-stars Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green. That’s a big ask — even for James.

Still, his presence alone is enough to give Cleveland confidence heading into Game 2. And history tells us he can do it. After all, the Cavaliers lost the first two games of last year’s Finals in Oakland but came back to win the series in seven games, including the decisive Game 7 on Golden State’s home floor. And while there were plenty of outside factors at play that aided in Golden State’s collapse, it still required a pair of virtuoso performances from James (along with Kyrie Irving) in Games 5 and 7 to snap Cleveland’s half-century championship drought.

[NBA stars read some really mean tweets about themselves after Game 1]

“It gives us a lot of confidence,” Kevin Love said. “We have a number of guys with experience and a lot of playoff minutes, a lot of years logged in this league and been in a number of these situations before.

“[LeBron], I mean, he’s at the forefront of that. He’s the head of that. So just having a guy that has been here, done that before, has so much confidence in everything that we do and walks the walk allows us to be ourselves and be confident in approaching Game 2.”

Plenty of things emerged from Game 1 that should leave the Cavaliers concerned heading into Game 2. The Warriors didn’t play their best in Game 1 — something members of both teams agree on — yet still cruised to a 22-point victory.

Meanwhile, Cleveland, after finishing second-to-last in the NBA in defense after the all-star break, made mistakes a junior-varsity team would defensively in Game 1, allowing multiple uncontested dunks for Durant and often looking hopelessly lost at that end of the floor. And Thompson and Green, while remaining excellent defensively for Golden State, combined to go 6 for 28, a number that should improve substantially in Game 2.

But the Cavaliers still have James on their side. And, despite everything that happened in Game 1, and the long odds so many outside of their locker room give them in both Game 2 and this series, that alone is enough to give them a fighting chance.

The last 29 playoff series James has been in have proved that.