Dr Reddy's Laboratories said that it has received Establishment Inspection Report (EIR) from the United States Food and Drug Administration on 13 June 2017 after closure of audit for the company's API manufacturing plant at Miryalaguda. This unit was inspected by the USFDA in February 2017 and Dr Reddy's was issued form 483 with three observations. The announcement was made after market hours yesterday, 13 June 2017.

Mahindra & Mahindra said that its board of directors at a meeting held on 13 June 2017, approved sale of a part of its shareholding in Mahindra Logistics (MLL), a subsidiary of the company, as part of the proposed initial public offer (IPO) of MLL, subject to requisite approvals and market conditions. The size of the stake sale, price and other details of the IPO will be determined in due course by a Committee of Directors. The announcement was made after market hours yesterday, 13 June 2017.

Shriram Transport Finance Company said that the allotment committee of non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of the company approved and allotted 9,650 secured, redeemable, rated, listed, of face value of Rs 10 lakh each, aggregating to Rs 965 crore on private placement basis. The announcement was made after market hours yesterday, 13 June 2017.

Emkay Global Financial Services said that company and DBS Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of DBS Bank have signed an exclusive agreement for sharing of knowledge, co-branding of research and its distribution to the global clients of DBS Vickers. The alliance would facilitate DBS Vickers to enhance its service offering to its clients, while enabling Emkay to expand its reach. The announcement was made after market hours yesterday, 13 June 2017.

Kellton Tech Solutions said that BEC (Systems Integration), a leading provider of automated data capture and voice solutions for use within the supply chain, logistics and manufacturing industries, has formed a partnership with the company.

The partnership will help infuse SAP's latest capabilities into BEC's solutions, enabling them to successfully implement S/4 HANA migration. Based on its eSmart Data Capture software suite, BEC's innovative solutions leverage the power of ERP to deliver improved accuracy and productivity within its clients' warehouse, distribution centre and manufacturing departments. The announcement was made after market hours yesterday, 13 June 2017.

Powered by Capital Market - Live News

(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)