Luxury Brands Expand Presence Via DLF Retail Arm

NEW DELHI Luxury brands like Hermes, Versace and Thomas Pink are expanding their presence in India through real estate major DLF's luxury retail arm, reports Anumeha Chaturvedi. The brands will launch their stores n Chanakya, the new luxury mall which will be aunched by the DLF Group in September.Brands like Brunello Cucinelli will make their India debut through the mall which will be spread over 2,50,000 square feet and will house a mix of luxury as well as other bridgeto-luxury brands like Diesel Gold. Other brands opening stores in the mall include Nirav Modi, Good Earth (luxury edition) and Grassroot by Anita Dongre. Hermes will be the flagship brand in the mall like Louis Vuitton at The Emporio. Hermes is currently present in India through its standalone store in Mumbai.

Amul FY17 Sales Jump 17.5% to Rs 27,043 crore

MUMBAI The Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF), which markets the popular Amul brand of milk and dairy products, has clocked a turnover of ` . 27,043 crore in FY17, an in crease of 17.5% over the previous year. However, the growth rate in the reporting year is much lower than the previous . 23,004 crore year's, when it clipped at 67% to ` over FY15. The cooperative said its turnover has increased by 3.5 times -from ` . 8,005 crore n FY10 to `. 27,043 crore in FY17 and attributed this to the rapid expansion of its procurement, processing and distribution network. “

Nestle may Sell US Confectionery Business

LONDON Swiss food group Nestle may sell its US confectionery business, which has annual sales of 900 million Swiss francs ($922.23 million), it said on Thursday. The business includes brands like Butterfinger, BabyRuth, 100Grand, SkinnyCow and Raisinets. “Nestle will explore strategic options for its US confectionery business, including a potential sale,“ the company said in a statement. The review of options does not include Nestle's Toll House baking products in the US or its international confectionery business. “Nestle remains fully committed to growing its leading international confectionery activities around the world, particularly its global brand KitKat,“ Nestle said.

Foodpanda to Offer Third Party Logistics Services

NEW DELHI Online food ordering and delivery firm Foodpanda on Thursday said it will provide third-party logistics services to its restaurant base across major cities, including Delhi, Mumbai and Gurgaon. As part of the development, restaurants can use foodpanda delivery services even for the orders which have not come through the foodpanda channel.