Presidential election 2017: Pranab Mukherjee’s tenure is about to end. (Source: PTI)

After the process for filing nominations for the upcoming Presidential election started, we have already seen some strange names coming forward. Despite the ruling and opposition parties staying quiet on the matter and are yet to declare their Presidential nominees, 13 individuals have already filed nominations and many of them don’t even fulfil the basic criteria, according to The Indian Express. While six people filed nominations on Friday, none of them actually fulfilled the primary criteria of furnishing a certified copy of an entry relating to them in the electoral roll of the Parliamentary Constituency where he/she is registered as an elector.

The report added that these candidates did not even deposit the nomination fee of Rs 15,000. “During every Presidential poll, 80-90 nominations are filed. Most of them are eventually rejected, while a few withdraw. People file nominations knowing that they won’t cross even the initial stages. During scrutiny, almost all, except those proposed by political parties, are rejected for failing to furnish details of 50 proposers and 50 seconders. Even this time, none of the persons who have filed nominations has been able to furnish details of 100 electors,” a source was quoted saying by The Indian Express.

Among those who have filed nominations is K Padmarajan from Tamil Nadu, who has unsuccessfully contested over 150 elections, including the last Presidential poll. Padmarajan, who has earned the nickname of ‘Election King’ also figures in the Limca Book of Records. He met the criteria of having deposited the nomination fee and submitting a copy of the document that shows his name in the electoral list of the parliamentary constituency he belongs to.

Apart from him, a couple, Mohammed Patel Abdul Hamid and his wife Saira Bano filed their nomination papers on Wednesday hoping that at least one of them might go on to win the election. However, as none of them has submitted the list of proposers and seconders, it’s a matter of time before their nominations are rejected during scrutiny.