PT. Riyanti Investama International brings the first Diner 2.0 to the Jakarta airport after opening five Johnny Rockets across the country. Yanti understands the culture of Indonesia and the Johnny Rocket experience, using local market knowledge to bring innovative concepts to the menu and local residents.

"We are excited to continue our partnerships with PT. Riyanti Investama, as their team brings extensive franchise knowledge and expert culinary experiences to Johnny Rockets," says James Walker, President of Operations, Development & Marketing. "This restaurant makes history for our brand, as it introduces the first Johnny Rockets Diner 2.0 design to an airport, which will truly enhance each customer's experience. Our franchisees continue to raise the bar with providing the most quality experience possible, which, in turn, fulfills our continuous culinary focus and path to global brand expansion."

Jakarta is the capital and most popular city in Indonesia. The Jakarta Johnny Rockets held its soft opening on May 1, 2017, and the celebration included local ceremonies such as the cutting of a Jasmine flower arrangement, signing on a canvas by the owner and teams and praying.

Brought to Indonesia by Dra. Wiryanti Sukamdani, Johnny Rockets is happily serving its customers at six different locations in Indonesia. For more information about franchising opportunities available through Johnny Rockets, visit: http://www.johnnyrockets.com/franchise-with-us/international-development.html.

About Johnny Rockets

Johnny Rockets is an international restaurant franchise that offers high quality, innovative menu items including fresh, never frozen hand-crafted burgers, Veggie Boca® burger, chicken sandwiches, crispy fries and rich, delicious hand-spun shakes and malts. This dynamic lifestyle brand offers friendly service and upbeat music contributing to the chain's signature atmosphere of relaxed, casual fun. Founded in 1986, Johnny Rockets operates more than 385 franchise and corporate locations in 32 countries around the world. For more information, visit www.johnnyrockets.com.

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/johnny-rockets-soars-into-jakarta-indonesia-opens-new-restaurant-300461040.html

SOURCE Johnny Rockets

Related Links

http://www.johnnyrockets.com

