Coca-Cola reacts to small brands, plans to roll out Kinley Flavors 35-40% cheaper than its soft drinks

What Patanjali did to Hindustan Unilever and Colgate, regional brands are doing to the soft drink giants -compelling the world's largest beverage maker Coca-Cola to launch a new category it's calling Kinley Flavors.Patanjali forced the consumer goods giants to launch their own versions of ayurvedic products. The upcoming range of aerated drinks, 35-40% cheaper than Coke, Sprite and Fanta, will be rolled out in localised flavours such as lemon, jeera and orange. More than 200 so-called B brands have flooded these markets at prices that are almost half that charged by the multinatio nals. They now have a consolidated share of over 12% of . 22,000-crore packaged aerated the ` drinks category, according to industry estimates.

They range from Bovonto in Tamil Nadu to Alwar-based Jayanti Cola, to Gujarat's Hajoori & Sons, which sells Sosyo, Ginlim and Lemee. A slew of smaller names include Xalta cola made by a New Delhi-based company, City Cola sold by Rahul Beverages, and Campa Cola, a brand name that never quite died out.A Coca-Cola spokesperson confirmed the launch of Kinley Flavors. “CocaCola has developed a new valuebased proposition for price-conscious consumers in aerated beverages,“ the spokesperson said. Targeted at the bottom segment of the market to compete with local brands, the beverages will be among the cheapest for Coca-Cola across markets.

“These new launches will be available in 250ml PET packs at attractive price points.We are doing pilots in select markets and will expand over time,“ the spokesperson added.

At the entry level, global soft drink brands in 200 ml glass bottles are priced at . 12, while 250 ml cans are priced at ` ` . 25.

Both Coca-Cola and PepsiCo set up specialised teams last year to monitor regional brands. PepsiCo said a few months ago that it was “stepping up consumer engagement across markets to counter competition at different price points“.

With limited expenditure on marketing, no mainstream advertising, and direct reach to retailers, these B brands manage to sell at a heavy price differential compared with the global brands and have been gaining share in local but captive markets.

“Localisation and regionalisation will trump globalisation, especially when it comes to taste. It has been happening and now it is accelerating,“ said brand and marketing consultant Harish Bijoor.“There are increasing examples of global brands not only acknowledging but also attacking the smaller brands.“ With the implementation of the goods and services tax (GST) starting July 1, Coca-Cola said prices of its aerated beverages will increase while those of packaged drinking water brand Kinley will drop.Aerated beverages have been taxed at an effective rate of 40%, which the company said will result in a marginal increase in prices of its existing soft drinks range even after absorbing the significant portion of the tax increase.

“In spite of higher GST rates for the aerated beverages, certainty in tax regime provides us with an opportunity to meaningfully expand our portfolio, catering to all consumer segments,“ the company spokesperson said.