Intel and NVIDIA battle are locked in new battle for turf, the booming datacentre market and at the heart of this skirmish the technology that's changing the world: Artificial Interlligence (AI).

In the recent quarter ended April 30, NVIDIA's revenue increased by 48% reaching $1.94 billion compared to previous year. A big revenue bump came from its Datacentre business which recorded $409 million revenue in the first quarter of this fiscal, up 186% year-on-year.The reason for the exponential increase is the spike in demand for a specific kind of microprocessor called Graphic Processing Unit made by NVIDIA.

Large technology companies like Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Facebook, IBM, and Alibaba have all installed NVIDIA's elite Tesla GPUs to power their datacentres to perform machine learning to analyse data gathered from the cloud and derive insights. “We have seen the PC era, which was followed by the mobile era, and now we see the emergence of the AI era,“ said Vishal Dhupar, MD, NVIDIA, adding, “Once viewed just as a gaming technology , GPUs are now making inroads into datacenters driving initiatives around machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI)“.

Datacentres are storehouses of large volumes of data which harness the compute power of GPUs to make sense of large repository of data. “The advent of GPUs have helped redefined the concept of systems design for many of the high-performance applications, both in the commercial as well as noncommercial segments of the market,“ says Rajnish Arora, VP, Enterprise Computing Research, IDC.

Does this mean that Intel will soon be losing market share in the datacenter space? Unlikely .“We do not believe that Intel is losing share of the server CPU market to NVIDIA... The numbers clearly demonstrate that Intel has consolidated its presence and market share in the server market,“ Arora said.

Today , Intel CPUs power datacentres all over the world and enjoys a near monopoly accounting for 95.7% of the total server shipped in 2016. Intel too is betting big on AI and has invested heavily in startups which help build AI and High-Performance Computing (HPC) capabilities into its upcoming chips.