



But do you think the Tata-Bharti combine is going to be mighty enough to be able to beat Idea-Vodafone on one hand and Reliance Jio on the other?



I would not comment on individual companies but I would say that however you see the landscape evolving, there will be three to four national telecom players, who will survive and be viable. Current returns are below the level of returns that you would define as being viable.



There are three types of investors. One who would like to call himself as investor but is a positional trader so we would not get there with you. But then you have a three-year guy and a five-year guy. The three-year guy is looking at inflection point which is what typically AMCs work with. You look at the inflection point on profit. You look at inflection point on industry or on the sales side. And the five-year guy is looking at India, the macro, the cash allocation which is 25% to 30% of your portfolio. Let us focus on the bucket two. Businesses, companies, sectors or themes which are at an inflection point.





Telecom is definitely at an inflection point because you see a lot of exits taking place and consolidation is as good an inflection point as you can have in any sector. Pharma is getting to the point where you are at the trough of valuations. I would also say that then we have the other inflection points where things have got too heady. Some of the smaller finance and NBFC space where you got too much capital flowing into the sector is where scale is important and everybody is betting after every small institution. It is not clear to us that that is the right strategy if you were to look at a three or five year view. You have to very careful of the inflection points going the other way also.You know this inflection or rather M&A seems to be now playing out in the aviation pack as well though at a very primary stage but do you think the likes of a SpiceJet, InterGlobe etc have the kind of might to absorb the kind of debt that Air India has? The international routes or whatever they are interested in buying, is going to require some serious amount of funds. Do their balance sheets have that kind of strength?Anish Tawakley: I do not think one should assume that whatever happens on Air India will happen with the current level of debt. It is fairly well talked about that there will be some relief given on that front and at the end of the day, Air India has only 13% of the market now. Whoever takes that on, if it takes it on a balance sheet light manner, it should be a manageable. The structuring of the deal is more important than the deal but the price and the way it is structured will be very important for whoever buys it.In any industry, when you remove a player which was willing to pump in capital without earning returns on that capital is a good thing for the industry. It is never a good thing for any competitor to have to compete with a player who has infinite amounts of capital and does not bother with returns.That is a fair point but we are assuming it goes to any existing player rather than to a new entrant. If it goes to a new entrant, that is what you are saying has more weight.HFC sector?The HFC, NBFC space is one where I think we need to be more cautious than the market has been. The reality is that housing finance tends to be a fairly commoditised business with low return across the world. Everybody seems to assume there are never losses in the retail space. That is simply not true as there is enough evidence even in the recent past that you have that. It is a business which typically favours scale, low cost of funding and delivers commoditised return. It is evergreen in the sense that there needs to be a lot of growth but the optimism around the returns is a bit overdone.This makes sense. The market share gainers with good returns on capital will definitely continue to attract premium valuations, I do think there is any two ways about that because if you are operating in a market which has reasonable growth, you are gaining market share with good returns and that is what these companies have essentially done. But within that consumer space, one needs to be slightly cautious. There are a lot of companies that have now very low volume growths because margins are at all-time highs and they are attracting competition.There is competition even apart from that. So we have seen this many times over in fact we saw this in early 2000s but one needs to be careful and if a company has realistic margins given the historical market share etc, those would continue to attract.I would not want to comment on that. We have multiple portfolios with different people doing different things in the portfolios.Yes, the focus will more be on the outlook than on the current earnings this time. Even with GST, the full effect you will only get to realise in the September-October timeframe. So it is a phase where people will be watching for all kinds of snippets of news and we will need to see how that goes basically.