Moneycontrol News

Uttar Pradesh Finance Minister Rajesh Agarwal yesterday presented the first budget of Yogi Adityanath government for 2017-18 in the state Assembly the key highlight for which remains the provision for a Rs 36,000 crore farm loan waiver that delivered on one of BJP’s key election promises.

What makes this budget important?

Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has just completed 100 days in government This is also the first budget to be presented post implementation of the Goods and Services Tax, which implies that state government cannot impose taxes for goods and services with the exception of non-GST goods.

Finance Minister Rajesh Agarwal mentioned that in this year’s Budget, rural development and overall progress were the key agendas, with backward regions like Bundelkhand getting special attention.

The government has projected an ambitious 10 percent growth in the state's gross domestic product (SGDP) over the next five years.

The single window system, power-for-all and Make-in-UP are some of the key initiatives taken by the state.

Key Highlights and Takeaways from CM Yogi’s first budget -

The total amount set aside in this year’s budget is Rs 3,84,659.71 crore with new schemes worth Rs 55,781 crore crore and Estimated revenue earnings in 2017-18 to be Rs 3,77,000 crore. Finance Minister Rajesh Agarwal said that the budget is 10.9 percent higher than last fiscal’s and has earmarked Rs 55,781 crore for new schemes.

Farmers: Yogi Adityanath has allotted a special provision of Rs 36,000 crore as the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister had promised at the time of getting elected that he would work for farm loan waiver , it was a challenge with it just being 100 days of Yogi’s government. Taxes on agricultural products have been kept zero. The state government also brought in a package for potato growers and ensured payment of cane dues worth Rs 22,682 crore.

Education : Rs 791 crore scholarship scheme has been announced for students of minorities, and a separate allocation of Rs 50 crore for Wi-Fi in degree colleges and universities. The budget made a provisoon fo Rs 394 crore for madrassas and Rs 791 crore for scholarship scheme fpor minority students. In addition to that, a sum of Rs 100 crore for supply of free school bags to students in schools run by the UP Basic Shiksha Parishad and Rs 300 crore for shoes and sweaters.

Roads: Rs 598 crore was set aside for broadening and strengthening of roads to segment infrastructure in the state. For the road connectivity in rural areas, a provision of Rs 451 crore has been made in the budget while Rs 251 crore has been allocated for roads in seven districts in the Indo-Nepal border.

Metro project : The budget made a provision of 288 crore for the metro project coming up to connect UP’s main cities of Kanpur, Varanasi, Agra and Gorakhpur.

Schemes: Provision of Rs 3,000 crore for has been set aside for Pradhan Mantri Avas Yojna. Also, Rs 300 crore allocation has been made for Deendayal Upadhyaya Nagar Vikas Yojna. The government also announced plan to connect the Bundelkhand region with Delhi through an expressway. The budget proposes Rs 692 crore for CM Kisan Ayam Sarvhit Bima Yojna and Rs 10 crore for Deendayal Upadhyaya Kisan Samriddhi Yojana.

Swachh Bharat : Rs 1,000 crore separately allotted for the Swacch Bharat Mission across UP’s cities.

Backward Communities: Rs 250 crore has been allotted for performing marriages of poor girls belonging to SC and ST and other backward communities and minorities.

Heritage and Culture: Government has announced it will organize Lok Malhar and Sawan Jhoola in Gorakhpur and Ayodhya respectively and hold monthly programmes under Deendayal Upadhyaya centenary year celebrations. Rs 200 crore and Rs 500 crore budgets have been allotted for settting up cultural centres in Varanasi and Ardhkumbh (Allahabad) respectively by 2019.

Religion: Rs 1240 crore earmarked for Swadesh Darshan Yojna with Ramayana , Krisha and Baudh circuits and Rs 800 crore for Prasad Yojna . Rs 1 crore has also been allotted for the Kailash Mansarovar yatra that has been in the Center of crisis for India-China spat in Sikkim.

Health: ‘108 ambulances’ to receive a boost, 712 more to be added . Rs 2,800 crore set aside for safe drinking water in Bundelkhand, Poorvanchal and Vindhya region. Uttar Pradesh to be made defecation-free by Gandhi Jayanti next year , 1227 villages on the banks of the Ganges to be freed form open defecation.

Animal Welfare: Rs 40 crore allocated for abandoned and stray animals under Besahara Pashu Yojana.

Tourism: Rs 25 crore set aside for helicopter services at tourist places and Rs 10 crore for developing tourism in the Vindhyanchal region.

Sports: Rs 25 crore set aside for developing water sports in Ramgarh Taal in Adityanath’s Gorakhpur district.

Regional Schemes: Rs 200 crore allocation has been made for special schemes for Bundelkhand, Rs 300 crore for special ones for Poorvanchal.

Environment: Groundwater conservation mission launched by Finance Minsiter in his Budget speech.