Needle Action Activity Spotted in KARUR VYSYA BANK LTD. (KARURVYSYA.BO)

Shares of KARUR VYSYA BANK LTD. (KARURVYSYA.BO) are moving on volatility today -2.02% or $-2.85 from the open. The BSE listed company saw a recent bid of $138.00 and 37176 shares have traded hands in the session.

When it comes to investing in the equity markets, patience may play a key role in how successful the portfolio is. Learning the ins and outs of the markets can take a lot of time and energy. Investors who are able to make well researched, calculated decisions may be putting themselves in a much better place. Learning how to focus on the most pertinent data can put the individual investor on the right track. With so much information available, it becomes highly important to be able to discern what information deserves attention and what doesn’t. Once the investor knows exactly what to look for, the process may become gradually easier and much more manageable.

Digging deeping into the KARUR VYSYA BANK LTD. (KARURVYSYA.BO) ‘s technical indicators, we note that the Williams Percent Range or 14 day Williams %R currently sits at -86.96. The Williams %R oscillates in a range from 0 to -100. A reading between 0 and -20 would point to an overbought situation. A reading from -80 to -100 would signal an oversold situation. The Williams %R was developed by Larry Williams. This is a momentum indicator that is the inverse of the Fast Stochastic Oscillator.

KARUR VYSYA BANK LTD. (KARURVYSYA.BO) currently has a 14-day Commodity Channel Index (CCI) of -124.46. Active investors may choose to use this technical indicator as a stock evaluation tool. Used as a coincident indicator, the CCI reading above +100 would reflect strong price action which may signal an uptrend. On the flip side, a reading below -100 may signal a downtrend reflecting weak price action. Using the CCI as a leading indicator, technical analysts may use a +100 reading as an overbought signal and a -100 reading as an oversold indicator, suggesting a trend reversal.

Currently, the 14-day ADX for KARUR VYSYA BANK LTD. (KARURVYSYA.BO) is sitting at 28.92. Generally speaking, an ADX value from 0-25 would indicate an absent or weak trend. A value of 25-50 would support a strong trend. A value of 50-75 would identify a very strong trend, and a value of 75-100 would lead to an extremely strong trend. ADX is used to gauge trend strength but not trend direction. Traders often add the Plus Directional Indicator (+DI) and Minus Directional Indicator (-DI) to identify the direction of a trend.

The RSI, or Relative Strength Index, is a widely used technical momentum indicator that compares price movement over time. The RSI was created by J. Welles Wilder who was striving to measure whether or not a stock was overbought or oversold. The RSI may be useful for spotting abnormal price activity and volatility. The RSI oscillates on a scale from 0 to 100. The normal reading of a stock will fall in the range of 30 to 70. A reading over 70 would indicate that the stock is overbought, and possibly overvalued. A reading under 30 may indicate that the stock is oversold, and possibly undervalued. After a recent check, the 14-day RSI for KARUR VYSYA BANK LTD. is currently at 48.65, the 7-day stands at 37.58, and the 3-day is sitting at 29.68.

Receive News & Ratings Via Email - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.

By DR Staff Writer