PM May Expand Ministry After Monsoon Session

The elevation of M Venkaiah Naidu to the post of Vice President will create another vacancy in the Narendra Modi cabinet and this has led to speculations that the Prime Minister would expand his Council of Ministers soon after the monsoon session of Parliament get over in August.

An expansion of the Council of Ministers in the NDA government has been due for some time. Manohar Parrikar left the Defence Minister post to become Chief Minister of Goa in April and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley was given additional charge of the ministry . Though Jaitley has handled both ministries well, many feel this is an interim arrangement as it is virtually impossible for a minister to handle two big ministers with so much of workload. The death of Environment Minister Anil Dave led to Modi giving Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan additional charge of this ministry .

Naidu was heading not just the Information and Broadcasting Ministry but also Urban Development, Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation. Modi will have to look for his replacement in both these portfolios. Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Kalraj Mishra has crossed the 75 year cut-off mark. He was reportedly not removed keeping the Uttar Pradesh elections in mind but may now be made a Governor (there are six vacant Raj Bhawans as of now).

There is also speculation that if BJP comes to power in Himachal Pradesh, where Assembly polls are due in December, Health Minister J P Nadda may be sent as chief minister (though Anurag Thakur is said to be in the race too). In case that happens another cabinet post may fall vacant.

Modi is said to choose his ministers and their portfolios after much rigour and homework. While the regional and caste balance would be among the criteria, the candidates should also have a non-controversial track record. In the appointment of most Cabinet ministers, competence was high on the list for the Prime Minister, officials insist. Sources in the government said there is a lot of analysis that went into the reshuffle that happened in July last year.

The process that inducted 19 new ministers vetted several MPs went through a detailed two month process. “The PM had made it very clear that it should be at least 10-12 days before the parliament session and before any of his major foreign trips so that he is apprised of the details,“ a senior official said. Knowing Modi's style of functioning, the list may already be in the making, officials said.The expansion and reshuffle may take place after the monsoon session of Parliament gets over on August 11.

Performance, delivery and no outof-turn speaking or creating unnecessary controversies for the gover nment were among the categories then.