Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE One of the largest icebergs ever recorded broke free in Antarctica, and scientists are saying another collapse might have catastrophic consequences. Veuer's Elizabeth Keatinge has the full story. Buzz60

The iceberg A-68 has sheared off from the Larsen C ice shelf in Antarctica. The inset photos show close-ups of where smaller bergs are beginning to break off. (Photo: Deimos Imaging, an UrtheCast company)

The sea cruise is underway.

The massive iceberg that calved off Antarctica last week is slowly drifting into the Weddell Sea.

Satellite images show the widening gap between the 1-trillion-ton berg — known as A-68 — and the Larsen C ice shelf.

At 2,200 square miles, the chunk of floating ice is one of the largest ever recorded. It's nearly the size of Delaware.

Due to long winter nights and extensive cloud cover in Antarctica, photos of the iceberg are difficult to obtain.

Scientists studying the iceberg rely on satellites equipped with radar-imaging systems or infrared sensors, which can create images regardless of cloud cover or darkness.

The image on the top of this page came from the Deimos-1 satellite.

Actual photos from research aircraft won't be possible until later this year, during the Antarctic spring and summer, according to Adrian Luckman, a professor of Swansea University and the lead investigator of the research group Project MIDAS.

The U.S. National Ice Center will monitor the path of the new iceberg, which will be determined by ocean currents around Antarctica, NASA said.

The new berg is likely to follow a similar path to the icebergs produced by the collapse of Larsen B: North along the coast of the Peninsula, then northeast into the South Atlantic Ocean, perhaps near the South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, a British territory.

“It’s very unlikely it will cause any trouble for navigation,” said Kelly Brunt, a glaciologist with NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center.

It will likely fracture into smaller bergs as it makes its way out to sea, the ice center said in a statement.

As for its inelegant moniker of A-68, iceberg names are derived from the Antarctic quadrant in which they were originally sighted, the ice center said. Thus, this is the 68th iceberg the ice center has tracked in the A quadrant, which includes Weddell Sea bergs.

This satellite image shows the Larsen C ice shelf on July 12, 2017. According to a statement by scientists of the MIDAS project on an iceberg has fully detached from the Larsen C ice shelf. (Photo: Copernicus EU/ESA Earth Observation/ESA)

Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2veqDWL