Moneycontrol News

The Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMVVY) pension scheme will be formally launched by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley today. The scheme was available on May 4, 2017, exclusively for the elderly aged 60 and above.

The pension scheme can be availed either over the counter or online through the state-owned insurance and investment group Life Insurance Corporation (LIC).

LIC offers life insurance pension schemes, which work like any other insurance. This is different from the employer-employee pension plans - pension amount which is given to the employee after the employee retires from the company.

In these schemes, the party availing the pension scheme has to pay a premium for a certain period (depending on the availed scheme). The time period of the payment of the premium amount varies in the schemes and has to be chosen as per the insuree's choice. Based on the premium given, the

Based on the premium given, the insuree will receive a pension amount every month. LIC will keep some amount, and send some as pension amount every month. After the party's death, the nominees will receive the whole amount, which LIC had kept for safety.

Along with PMVVY, LIC offers Jeevan Akshay-VI and New Jeevan Nidhi pension schemes.

Here's how PMVVY will be different from the other two

#Based on the premium amount the party is paying, the interest rate varies in Jeevan Akshay-VI and New Jeevan Nidhi schemes. However, in PMVVY, the party will receive a flat 8 percent interest rate.

#PMVVY will be exempted from Goods and Services Tax (GST). Whereas minimal tax charges are levied in the other two schemes. The tax levied on the schemes will depend on the options that are opted by the party availing the pension. Most options depend upon the age of the availing party.

#PMVVY can be availed till May 3, 2018. However, the other two schemes are not time-constraint. The schemes have been a part of LIC for a while now.

#The pension amount will be given after each period. It will depend on what plan is chosen and will depend on the frequency of monthly, quarterly, half-yearly, yearly as chosen by the pensioner. In Jeevan Akshay-VI, the party will receive an assured amount per month based on the immediate annuity plan chosen. In New Jeevan Nidhi, the party will receive an assured amount after the maturity.

#In New Jeevan Nidhi, the party receives pensions only after he/she reaches the vesting age. Because Jeevan Akshay-VI and PMVVY are immediate annuity plans, the amount is given every month and then the total premium invested by the party is given after the death of the party and/or maturity of the contract.

#Loan in PMVVY can be availed only after 3 years of the policy contract. The loan interest will be recovered from the pension instalments while the loan will be adjusted in the claim proceeds. The other two schemes do not offer loans.

Each pension policy has different riders and options, which are suitable for different sections of people. Hence, more options in the pension schemes give more choice to the interested parties.

(Source: LIC - 1