During President Trump's joint news conference with Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri Tuesday, there are a number of issues he may be asked about, including his relationship with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, as well as the health care bill which is being considered in the Senate.

Mr. Trump and Hariri are meeting about fighting terrorism, the economy and refugees, according to the White House. They're expected to discuss issues relating to Hezbollah, Lebanon's autonomous Shiite militia which the United States identifies as a terrorist organization. Hezbollah has allied with Iran in mutual support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's action against Sunni Islamist rebels.

The White House also issued a statement Friday taking a harder stance on hostages detained by Iran saying that "President Trump is prepared to impose new and serious consequences on Iran unless all unjustly imprisoned American citizens are released and returned."

This is Mr. Trump's 14th news conference, 13 of which were also joint sessions with foreign leaders.

Live Updates:

Trump is asked about refugees, responds with stance on ISIS

Mr. Trump praised his administration's "tremendous" strides in tackling the Islamic State if Iraq and Syria.

Trump says "We have a lot of options, and a lot of great options" for future of health care

Mr. Trump said that the Republicans who voted against the bill are "sad," and continued on to criticized Obamacare for being "all lies." Following the Senate's vote on a motion to proceed on the Obamacare repeal bill, Mr. Trump thanked the Republican senators who voted in favor of the bill.

Mr. Trump is asked why should sessions remain as attorney general

President Trump said that he wants AG Jeff Sessions to be "tougher" on the intelligence community.

Trump will take a position on Hezbollah "tomorrow"

When asked about his stance on Hezbollah, Mr. Trump responded that he will take a stance on the issue in the near future.

Hariri believes relationship between Saudi Arabia and Qatar has"made some progress"

Hariri expressed that he believes there has been improvement in the tumultuous relationship between Saudi Arabia and Qatar.

Trump is asked about comments on Attorney General Jeff Sessions, if he's "lost confidence" in Sessions

Trump says he is "disappointed" in the attorney general and says that he would have "picked somebody else" had he known Session would recuse himself.

Mr. Trump says Leban on has "lead the way" in accepting refugees

Mr. Trump thanked the Prime Minister for Lebanon's willingness to accept Syrian refugees.



Trump begins conference, expresses thanks for passage of Senate health care bill

Mr. Trump and Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri approached the podium to begin the conference. Following the Senate's vote to proceed on health care, Mr. Trump expressed gratitude for the bill's passage saying that Obamacare has "been a disaster for the American people."



Conference will begin momentarily

President Trump and Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri will begin the news conference momentarily after a slight delay.