Google has added SOS Alerts to Maps and Search in an effort to help save lives in emergencies.

The new features provides emergency telephone numbers, news reports, maps and other useful information when an incident occurs.

The feature can also trigger mobile notifications to people who are near the catastrophe, and provide round-ups to people who are further away.

Scroll down for video

SOS Alerts provides people with emergency telephone numbers and other useful pieces of information that could help them stay alive

HOW DOES IT WORK? SOS Alerts brings key information as updates. These include information about official alerts, tweets and phrases in the local language. It will let people know which roads are closed, traffic jams and places they can find refuge. Users who are close to the affected area will get notifications. People not in the area who want information about the crisis can search for the SOS Alert which provides a timely overview of the situation.

As part of the new feature, an alert will appear at the top of your search results when you for the incident or location.

The alert will you’ll also find maps, top stories and local information from authorities.

Depending on how close you are, you may also get a notification on your mobile.

If you search for certain times, such as the name of the event,an SOS Alert that provides a timely overview of the situation, as well as options to donate to help those in crisis.

On Google Maps on your phone, you’ll see an icon that provides real-time information about the crisis.

It will also let you know which roads are closed, traffic jams and places you can find refuge.

Google is providing SOS Alerts in 12 countries, including the US, Japan, the Philippines, Australia, Columbia, India and New Zealand.

It has yet to be rolled out in the UK or other European countries.

'In times of crisis, more and more people are turning to online sources of information to find out what to do,' Omar Abou-Samra, a technical advisor at the American Red Cross, told BBC.

'Designed to be shared in tandem with public alerts, the service provides localised lifesaving information that people can immediately act on to protect themselves and their families', he said.

Previous emergency response efforts from Google, such as Person Finder and Crisis Map, meant users had to go to special sections of the site.

SOS Alerts which works inside the maps app (pictured) brings key information as updates. These include information about official alerts, tweets and phrases in the local language

SOS alerts have been developed with organisations including the Red Cross and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in the US.

'In situations of crisis, the need for information is crucial,' Yossi Matias, Google's vice-president of engineering, said.

'People need to know what's going on - anything that may be related to their safety, or any action they should be taking.'

Google says it will turn on the alerts in other countries if there is a disaster.