





The Government lays special focus on imparting employment-oriented education, motivate students to be socially aware and responsible citizens, to inculcate a spirit of dignity of labour among the youth and commitment for social upliftment. The Government has notified National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) to enable a person to acquire desired competency levels, transit to the job market and at an opportune time, return for acquiring additional skills to further upgrade their competencies and ensure holistic development.



The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has taken several initiatives such as National Employment Enhancement Mission (NEEM) and Employment Enhancement Training Programme (EETP) for improving the employability of the students coming out of the technical institutions. Recently, AICTE has signed MOUs under EETP program with leading private companies for creating job opportunities for the students. Apart from this, AICTE Council has approved a host of measures like mandatory internships, curriculum revision in consultation with Industry and industry-readiness training at the end of the course to improve the employability of the students coming out of the technical institutions.



University Grants Commission (UGC) has started schemes such as Community Colleges, B.Voc. degree programme, Deen Dayal Upadhaya KAUSHAL Kendras in Universities and Colleges so as to enhance employability of students and make them industry-ready.



This Ministry, through UGC, is also implementing the scheme Career Oriented Courses to impart knowledge, skills and aptitude for gainful employment in wage sector in general and self employment in particular to candidates taking these courses so as to reduce the pressure on institutions of higher learning for Master Degree. The courses offered are in the form of Certificate / Diploma / Advance Diploma which students may opt parallel to their conventional B.A / B.Com/ B.Sc. degrees.



Further, the UGC has requested the Vice-Chancellors of all the Universities in the country to ensure review and revision of academic curricula of various programmes offered by them and by their affiliated colleges at least once in every three years. UGC has recommended that while undertaking such review and revision of academic curricula, the Universities should consider the existing and potential demand and supply of skill sets to make University/College students employable.



This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.



