Google's smart keyboard for iOS now includes access to two of the firm's most used apps.

Users can directly access YouTube and Google Maps, as well as a new Ink feature, through the Gboard interface.

This means that you can share your location with friends, search and watch videos, and create doodles with a push of a button.

Scroll down for video

Google's smart keyboard for iOS now includes access to two of the firm's most used apps. Users can directly access YouTube (right) and Google Maps (left), as well as a new Ink feature (centre), through the Gboard interface

HOW TO ACCESS THE NEW FEATURES To access the new features, make sure you have the 1.8.0 version of Gboard for iOS. You then need to tap the 'G' google search button. The Maps option will let you share your current location or a local address with friends and family. You’ll also see a new YouTube tab that makes it easier to send YouTube videos. And for budding artists, you can also use the new Ink feature to draw and share your creations right from the keyboard. Just tap on the emoji button followed by the pen icon to start drawing.

Google released the new functions as part of the 1.8.0 version of the software.

To access them, iPhone and iPad fans will need to make sure they have update to this version, via automatic updates or by visiting the App store manually.

They then need to tap the 'G' google search button.

The Maps option will let you share your current location or a local address with friends and family.

You’ll also see a new YouTube tab that makes it easier to send YouTube videos.

And for budding artists, you can also use the new Ink feature to draw and share your creations right from the keyboard.

Just tap on the emoji button followed by the pen icon to start drawing.

Writing on a blog, a Google spokesman said: 'To all the Gboard fans out there, we’re adding some clutch additions to your favourite keyboard companion.

'You’ll have access to both Maps and YouTube, making it easier than ever to share location and video content in any messaging app.

'Whether you’re coordinating a rendezvous point at the park or dinner plans at a nearby restaurant, meeting up with friends and family has never been easier

'And as an added bonus, we now support three new languages: Arabic, Hebrew and Farsi.

'We’re always working on new features and languages, so please keep sharing your feedback in the App Store.'

Google first launched Gboard in May 2016 for iOS, adding an Android version six months later.

Among the features included was Glide Typing, for easier one-handed texting.

The new features in the 1.8.0 version of the Gboard software for means that you can share your location with friends (left) and search and watch videos (right)

Budding artists can also use the new Ink feature (pictured) to draw and share their creations right from the keyboard

Apart from a different font and lighter colour-scheme, Gboard doesn't look much different than the standard iOS keyboard.

But, at the top left, Gboard users see a small Google 'G.'

Pressing this button opens up a search bar right within the keyboard.

So, you can search restaurants, venues, or anything else, and share this information with the person you're texting.

This is done by tapping the website's card in the Google search, and then pasting it into the text.

Google first launched Gboard in May 2016 for iOS, adding an Android version six months later. At the top left, Gboard users see a small Google 'G' (left) that brings up the service's features. The new Ink drawing pad is now found in the emoji section of the keyboard (right)

And, to the delight of many GIF users, the keyboard also has a built-in GIF search.

This can be found by clicking the smiley face at the bottom left, where you'd normally pull-up the emoji catalogue.

Emojis will still be there, but next to this is a now 'GIF' option.

This makes it easier than ever to find the perfect GIF reactions almost instantly. Just search a term, click on the one you like, and paste it into the message.