On expected lines, the Reserve Bank of India cut key interest rates by 25 basis points (bps) to 6 percent on lowered inflation numbers.

The repo rate now stands lowered from 6.25 percent to 6 percent with immediate effect.

The quarter percentage point cut means that the key lending rate is at its lowest since November 2010, after a slump in food prices sent June consumer inflation to a more than five-year low of 1.54 percent.

Four members voted in favour of a 25 bps rate cut while Ravindra Dholakia voted for a 50 bps cut and Michael Debabrata Patra voted for status quo.

The minutes of the MPC’s meeting will be published by August 16.

According to the RBI policy statement, “Since the June 2017 meeting of the MPC, impulses of growth have spread across the global economy albeit still lacking the strength of a self-sustaining recovery. Among the advanced economies (AEs), the US has expanded at a faster pace in Q2 after a weak Q1, supported by steadily improving labour market conditions, increasing consumer spending, upbeat consumer confidence helped by softer than expected inflation, and improving industrial production. Policy and political risks, however, continue to cloud the outlook.”

Measured by year-on-year changes in the CPI, the retail inflation plunged to its lowest reading in the series based to 2011-12.

This is much below the government and RBI's 4 percent (+/- 2 percent i.e. 2-6 percent) target and much lower than RBI’s projection of 2.0-3.5 percent in April-September.

“Looking ahead, as base effects fade, the evolving momentum of inflation would be determined by (a) the impact on the CPI of the implementation of house rent allowances (HRA) under the 7th central pay commission (CPC); (b) the impact of the price revisions withheld ahead of the GST; and (c) the disentangling of the structural and transitory factors shaping food inflation,” RBI said in the policy statement.

The MPC observed that while inflation has fallen to a historic low, a conclusive segregation of transitory and structural factors driving the disinflation is still elusive, it added.

Though the repo rate cut was not required for a further cut in lending rates, the policy repo rate cut could ease borrowing cost and spur investments. Credit demand and investments have remained sluggish because of reasons other than interest rate.

“Surplus liquidity conditions persisted in the system, exacerbated by front-loading of budgetary spending by the government,” RBI said.

This is the sixth monetary policy announcement by the monetary policy committee (MPC) and the third bi-monthly policy for the financial year 2017-18.

In February, the MPC surprised the markets changing the policy stance to "neutral" from being "accommodative".

The next meeting of the MPC is scheduled on October 3 and 4.